WELCOME TO THE ANN
ARBOR HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
WE'LL START WITH ROLL CALL
DENISE WITH THIS MEETING WE
WILL BROADCAST LIVE ON CHANNEL
16 AT&T CHANNEL 99 AND ONLINE
AT 8:00 TO GO UP THERE OR WATCH
THE PUBLIC COMMENTARY CAN BE
MADE IN PERSON OR CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN OR EIGHT
EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT
ZERO ZERO NINE NINE
INTERMEETING DENHA NINE NINE
SIX NINE FOUR ZERO THREE SEVEN
EIGHT SEVEN FOUR COMMISSIONER
CAST PRESENT COMMISSIONER
MEADOW'S VICE CHAIR GARBA
PRESENT COUNCIL MEMBERS HERE
COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN HERE
COMMISSIONER PESSIMISM
COMMISSIONER BOB PRESENT
STAMBAUGH PRESENT COMMISSIONER
COLWIN HELLO HERE COMMISSIONER
WINKLER HERE COMMISSIONER
SILVER ABSOLUTE OK YOU HAVE A
QUORUM.
THANK YOU DENISE.
NOW TIME FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
IT'S TIME WHERE PEOPLE CAN FROM
THE COMMUNITY CAN COME AND
SPEAK ON ANY TOPIC YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES EACH.
I KNOW THAT THERE ARE PEOPLE
OUT THERE.
THERE ARE PEOPLE ON THE PHONE.
ONE WANTED THE PHONE CALLS
FIRST.
YES.
OK, HOLD ON.
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE PHONE CALLS
FIRST AND THEN WE'LL ASK YOU TO
COME UP NUMBER FIFTEEN
SEVENTEEN PLEASE SPEAK PLEASE
MUTE CALLER
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES YES I KIND OF HI MY NAME IS
ELECTED COUNCIL MEMBER.
I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST A
MEMBER OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION TO ENDORSE THAT I
HAVE PROPOSED TO INCLUDE THE
COST AS A PRACTICAL CAB IN THE
CITY OF NONDISCRIMINATION
DISCRIMINATION AN IDEA I AM
PREPARED I WORK AND I HE AND I
DID FACE DISCRIMINATION ON
MULTIPLE OCCASIONS MY PRESENT
EXPERIENCE AT MY WORKPLACE WHEN
MY COWORKER CALLED ME OUT
OF THE KNOWING THAT BECAUSE I
BELONG TO MY BEING IN FRONT
OF A GROUP OF CHROMEBOOK
BECAUSE OF PEOPLE LIKE ME
TAKING THE RESERVATION AND
GETTING VEGETATION SINCE IN
INDIA THE COST OF THE PEOPLE IS
ONLY LEGALLY RECOGNIZED LEGALLY
RECOGNIZED IN INDIA FOR THE
PURPOSE OF RESERVATION.
SO HE POINTED OUT ME IN FRONT
OF ALL THE CO WORKERS SAYING
HER SISTER DID NOT GET
ADMISSION IN THE SCHOOL AND I
WAS VERY SHOCKED AND HUMILIATED
IN FRONT OF A GROUP
OF COLLEAGUES EVEN THOUGH I DID
NOT TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
RESERVATION AND I WAS ALLOWED
AND HUMILIATED IN FRONT OF ALL
THE ACTIVISTS INCIDENT I DID
NOT DISCLOSE I NEVER DISCLOSED
MY COST ANYMORE SO AND I DON'T
WANT SAME TO BE HAPPENED TO MY
CHILDREN SO THE COUNCIL MEMBER
TO INTRODUCE THE PROPOSAL TO
INCLUDE CASTE AS A PROTECTED
CLASS IN THE CITY
OF NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR LISTENING.
THANK YOU CALLER SIX SIX TWO
THANK YOU.
PLEASE ON MUTE
HOW MANY IN MY
AND I WILL DO AND I'M CALLING
TO SHOW ME SUPPORT FOR THE
AGENDA ITEM TO INCLUDE GAFFED
AS A PROTECTED CATEGORY AND OUR
WORD NONDISCRIMINATION
ORDINANCE HAS BEEN A HUGE
PROBLEM, A SIGNIFICANT ISSUE IN
THE UNITED STATES AND THERE ARE
NUMEROUS CASES INVOLVING
DISCRIMINATION BASED UPON THAT
WE HAVE DEMONSTRATED THE EXTENT
OF THE PROBLEM AND THE NEED FOR
A SOLUTION.
I HAVE I MYSELF HAVE THESE
CAUSES DISCRIMINATION WHEN ONE
OF MY MANAGER WHO USED TO
REALLY LIKE MY WORK A YEAR
AFTER HE CAME TO KNOW WHAT MY
PATH IS GREW INCREASINGLY
FRUSTRATED AND STARTED
NEGLECTING MY TRADITIONS IN HIS
IN A MEETING AND WHEN MY
COLLEAGUES NOTICED THE THEY
UNDERSTOOD THAT SOME SORT
OF PROBLEM IS HAPPENING AND
DECIDED TO BACK ME UP IN THE
MEETING.
BUT AFTER A FEW MONTHS HE TOLD
ME WHEN I VOLUNTEERED FOR THE
PROJECT HE TOLD ME NOT TO TOUCH
THAT PROJECT BECAUSE I WAS
IMPEDED AND THIS WAS DECIDED AT
ON ME BASED UPON VOLUNTEERS
BECAUSE THE FACT THAT I COME
FROM IS SUPPOSED TO BE CALLED
VOLQUEZ MEANING WE ARE SO ILL
FATED WE ARE TAGGED INFERIOR IN
A WAY THAT WE ARE SO ILL FATED
THAT WE ARE NOT SUPPOSED TO
TOUCH ANYONE.
SO I NEVER REALLY THOUGHT THAT
THAT WOULD MANIFEST TO ME IN
SUCH A BIG
BEING IN THE UNITED
STATES AND BACK TO WITH SO MUCH
OF EDUCATION I HAVE A MASTER'S
DEGREE IN COMPUTER SCIENCE EVEN
AFTER GETTING THAT SORT
OF EDUCATION AND BEING AS
CONFIDENT AS ANYONE ELSE CAN BE
,I WAS FACING THE
DISCRIMINATION AND
DISCRIMINATION AND IT'S NOT
JUST MY STORY OR IT'S NOT JUST
THE STORY YOU HAVE OF ME.
OK, LOTTERY SHOWED THAT TWENTY
FIVE PERCENT OF TO BE PHYSICAL
ASSAULT AND VOLUNTARY STUDENT
WHO ARE FROM A PLACE THAT ARE
DISCRIMINATED AGAINST DURING
THEIR EDUCATION AND SIXTY
PERCENT OF UNDERPRIVILEGED
REPORT EXPERIENCE IN DEROGATORY
JOKE AND COMING TO THIS IS WELL
THIS IS A REAL PROBLEM AND IT'S
COMPLETE AND IT EXISTS IN EVERY
CAPITAL HAS TAKEN THE PRECEDENT
TO BECOME ONE OF CITY TO
ADDRESS DISCRIMINATION AS AS A
PROTECTED CATEGORY.
I WOULD ALSO REQUEST YOU TO DO
THE SAME.
THANK YOU SO FOR LISTENING TO
OUR STORY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
CAN WE HAVE SOMEBODY FROM THE
FLOOR HERE TO SPEAK?
WE'LL TRY TO ENTERTAIN WITH
FLOOR AND PHONE.
THERE ARE AN AWFUL LOT
OF PEOPLE WHO WANT TO SPEAK AND
WE WILL ONLY BE ABLE TO GIVE
YOU ABOUT HALF HOUR ALL
TOGETHER SO WE ARE TRYING TO MY
SON THIS YEAR SO FIRST OF ALL,
THANK YOU FOR ORGANIZING THIS
AND I SUPPORT THIS ORDINANCE TO
BE INCLUDED IF I LOOK AT THAT
THE DISCRIMINATION CATEGORY
THAT ARE SEVENTEEN FOR EXAMPLE,
LET ME TELL YOU ONE EXAMPLE.
THERE IS AN INDIAN YOU KNOW
THEY ARE FROM THE SAME RACE,
SAME GENDER, SAME EVERYTHING.
WHERE DO THEY FIGHT BECAUSE IT
IS VERY CLEARLY SEES I
CREATED FOUR CATEGORIES
OF CASTE YOU KNOW BRAHMIN
CHATRIER WASHER AND DRYER.
SO IT'S KIND OF A CATAGORIES
RIGHT.
SO WHEN THE RELIGION DOES
THAT'S WHAT THESE SO-CALLED
HINDUS ARE AGAINST THIS SIKHS
THEY CATCHES THEM.
THEY JUST KEEP QUIET BECAUSE
THEY WANT REFORM.
CHRISTIANITY HAS TO HAVE
BECAUSE IT'S ROOTED FROM
HINDUISM PEOPLE WHO MIGRATED
FROM HERE TO HERE THEY DON'T
CARE.
SO WHY THERE'S ONLY HINDUS CAN
BECAUSE CASTE IS EMBEDDED IN
HINDUISM.
NO HINDU CAN BE PUT TO THE
CASTE.
SO IT IS IMPORTANT TO US FOR
THE LAST TWENTY FOUR YEARS I
CAN TELL TONS OF EXAMPLES FROM
LAST WEEK I AT MY JOB BECAUSE
OF THIS IT'S A FACT I GOT A
MANAGER I RESIGNED LAST WEEK.
I MOVED ON.
HOW MANY PEOPLE CAN DO THAT?
SO PLEASE THANK YOU FOR THIS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS MY ISSUE ARSENIC AND
I AM A RESIDENT OF MICHIGAN
LAST TWENTY YEARS AND I'M
WORKING IN THE AUTOMOTIVE
INDUSTRY IN SUPPLY-CHAIN I
WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST ALTHOUGH
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSIONER AND
OTHER COUNCIL MEMBER TO ENDORSE
THE PROPOSAL TO ADD COST IN A
PROTECTED CLASS IN THE CITY'S
ORDINANCE AND ALSO PLEASE KEEP
STAND ALONE CATEGORY.
I BELONG TO THE OPPRESSED
COMMUNITY AND NOW THERE ARE TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
MILLION PEOPLE SUFFERING
SUFFERING FROM THE
OF DISCRIMINATION.
I AM PART OF WHO I CAN SPEAK UP
NOT JUST TO TELL MY EXPERIENCE
HERE BUT WE DON'T HAVE MUCH
TIME AND AGAIN I DO NOT WANT TO
IMPOSE THIS COST WHICH I
SUFFER.
I DON'T WANT MY KIDS TO SUFFER
AND THEIR GENEROUS AND TO
SUPPORT YESTERDAY WAS A BURDEN
AND OF OUR SOCIAL DEPARTMENT
MAHATMA PELIN HE FIGHT IN THE
EIGHTEENTH CENTURY TO ABOLISH
THE COURT SYSTEM THIS WEEK AND
APRIL 14TH THERE IS A NOTARY UP
KNOCKED DOWN AND HE FIRED CASTE
SYSTEM IN TWENTIETH CENTURY AND
WE ARE STILL FIGHTING THAT
CASTE SYSTEM SO HOW LONG WE CAN
FIGHT THIS SYSTEM SO AGAIN I
REQUEST ALL THE COUNCIL MEMBER
AND THE COMMISSIONER PLEASE
ODIASE THE AUDIENCE AND JUST
AND SYSTEM.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
I WILL TAKE TWO PEOPLE ON THE
PHONE AND WE'RE TRYING TO BE
FAIR AS FAIR AS POSSIBLE NUMBER
SIX FIVE TO PLEASE ON MUTE.
HELLO.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YEAH.
CAN I GET THE QUOTE I WANT
ACCELERATED PROGRAM MANAGER
OF THE YEAR SOMETIMES I WITH
THIS KIND OF DISCRIMINATION
WHILE GETTING THE JOB INTERVIEW
.
THERE ARE CERTAIN PEOPLE THAT
ARE COMPANY WHICH HAVE THE
RECRUITING PEOPLE FROM INDIA
AND THOSE ARE MOSTLY APPLICANTS
PEOPLE WHO ACTUALLY TAKE THIS
INTERVIEW AND THEY ACTUALLY
WHEN THEY COME TO KNOW MY LAST
NAME THEY COME TO KNOW AND A
LOWER PERSON.
SO EVEN THOUGH I HAVE THE
QUALIFICATION FOR THE MASTERS
IN ELECTRONICS AND IN THAT
INDUSTRY FOR ABOUT TWENTY YEARS
WORKING BUT IN SPITE OF THAT MY
QUALIFICATION EDUCATION
EXPERIENCE IN THE FIELD WITH
ACTUALLY REJECT ME I DON'T KNOW
THEN CONTINUE TO YOUR PERSON IS
FROM THE UPPER CLASS AND
BECAUSE OF HIM I GOT REJECTED
SO I THEREBY ACTUALLY SUPPORT
THAT GOSSLING INCLUDED IN THE
DISCRIMINATION AS A
DISCRIMINATION IN THIS WORK
THIS CATEGORY.
THANK YOU.
NUMBER EIGHT FOR SEVEN PLEASE
UNMIL GOOD AFTERNOON
.
YES HI MY NAME IS PACHON NEYMAR
AND I AM CALLING TO SHOW MY
SUPPORT FOR THE AGENDA ITEMS
INCLUDE COST OF PROTECTIVE
CLOTHING AND ARTWORK,
NONDISCRIMINATION.
I COME FROM THE DOMINANT
COMMUNITY AND I HAVE BEEN
EMBEDDED IN THE INDIAN AMERICAN
COMMUNITY FOR THE LAST TWENTY
TWO YEARS.
I CAN I CAN CONFIRM THAT THERE
ARE MANY PEOPLE IN THE
COMMUNITY WHO HAVE A PREJUDICED
VIEW AGAINST PEOPLE FROM THE
MARGINALIZED COMMUNITIES
OF INDIA AND SOUTH ASIA.
SO WE DO NEED THESE PROTECTIONS
IN PLACE SO THAT WE CAN HAVE
WORKPLACES WHICH ARE SAFE FOR
EVERYBODY.
SO PLEASE DO THIS THIS YEAR
WHICH HAS BEEN DENIED FOR A
VERY LONG TIME BECAUSE THE
COMPANY AND OTHERS DO NOT CLAIM
TO NOT UNDERSTAND HOW TO
ENFORCE THESE PROTECTION TO
THANK YOU.
SOMEBODY FROM
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
AND OUR HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
MEMBERS AND CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS MY NAME IS SANJAY AND I
AM STANDING HERE TO SUPPORT THE
PROPOSAL TO ADD AS A PROTECTED
CLASS IN THE CITY'S
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE THE
ORDINANCE WILL PROTECT ME AND
MY FAMILY MEMBERS AS A
DESCENDANT OF LIPLESS CLASSES
OF SOUTH ASIAN ORIGIN.
CASTE DISCRIMINATION IS RAMPANT
IN THE UNITED STATES IN HOUSING
WORKPLACE AND IN SCHOOLS
BECAUSE DISCRIMINATION MAKES IT
DIFFICULT TO ASSIMILATE TO
INTEGRATE, TO TRY AND PURSUE
THE AMERICAN DREAM.
IT LEADS TO EXCLUSION,
EXPLOITATION, BULLYING, DENIAL
,DENIAL OF GROWTH
OPPORTUNITIES AND NOT HAVING
REMEDY MAKES PEOPLE TO SUFFER
SILENTLY.
ADDING CASTE AS A SEPARATE
CATEGORY WILL EXTEND EQUALITY
TO THE LAST MAN THE LAST PERSON
IN THE LINE SO I URGE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION MEMBERS TO
SUPPORT AND EXTEND EQUAL TO
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE WHO IS HERE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK ONLY WANT TO GO
ONLINE AND YES NUMBER SEVEN
SEVEN ZERO PLEASE SPEAK PLEASE
ON MUTE.
HELLO
.
NUMBER NINE FIVE FIVE PLEASE
MUTE.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
GOOD EVENING MEMBERS LAM YEAH
THANKS FOR LISTENING TO US AND
ORGANIZING THAT PUBLIC HEARING
.
MY NAME IS GRACE AND I AM
CALLING TO CALLING TO URGE YOU
TO PASS THIS RESOLUTION TO OUR
AS A PROTECTED CATEGORY IN THE
CITY OF AND ADVOCATE BETTER
PROTECTION COMMUNITY MEMBERS
WHO HAVE SUFFERED A LOT
OF SUFFERING IN THESE
COMMUNITIES WHERE WE ARE BUT
THE AFFECTED COMMUNITY AND I
PERSONALLY HAVE BEEN
DISCRIMINATED AGAINST AGAINST
MY
UNFORGOTTEN BECAUSE OF MY
LOLCAT WHICH RESULTED IN ME
BEING DENIED EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITIES WERE
DISCRIMINATED IN HELPING AND I
HAVE ALSO SEEN I'VE BEEN A
WITNESS TO ISSUES DURING COMING
COMPETITION NOT ALLOWING BOOMI
FROM THE COMMUNITIES TO LIVE
WITH AND THEN TO FIND OUT WHAT
WE CAN IMAGINE.
THESE PEOPLE ARE BRINGING THE
THAT MINDSET TO THE AMERICAN
COMMUNITY BEFORE AGREEING TO BE
WITH SOMEONE.
THEY ARE ASKING SOME OF THESE
LOCATIONS AND WORKING
EFFICACIES HIGH IN THE MATTER
ONLY THEN WILL LEAVE RETURN TO
THE OPPRESSED PEOPLE TO LISTEN
TO THE FULL COURT HERE.
AND I URGE YOU TO PASS THIS
RESOLUTION AND ADD GAS TO THE
PROTECTED CATEGORY IT IS RIGHT
NOW.
BUT THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NUMBER NINE EIGHT NINE PLEASE
ON MUTE
.
HELLO.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES.
HI A LITTLE BIT AND GOOD
EVENING TO WE HAVE COUNCIL
MEMBERS I'M CALLING IN TO SHOW
MY SUPPORT THE AGENDA ITEM TO
INCLUDE CUTS TO THE CATEGORY
WITHIN A CLUB AND ALSO EVEN
WITHIN BUILDING AND MY NAME MY
THINK IS GOING TO COST AND I
HAVE FAITH THAT
DISCRIMINATION'S HERE IN THE
CITY HAS BEEN LIKE SEVEN YEARS.
I AM HERE AND IN THE CHURCH IN
THE CULTURAL DIVERSITY AGAIN
THE PEOPLE FROM THAT MUSIC WE
WILL SEE THAT PEOPLE ARE PEOPLE
ARE OUR BROTHERS AND SISTERS
BUT THAT'S NOT THE OLD
PREJUDICES AND PRACTICES AND
CASTNER'S HAS BEEN USED HERE
AGAIN IN PUBLIC PLACES MANY
TIMES I'VE SEEN AND I'VE HEARD
THAT AND IS NOT JUST
INTERESTING BUT IT'S SOMETHING
WHICH IS VPI INCLUDING THE
CULTURAL FORMAT AND AND
WHEREVER INDIANS GO THEY BRING
THEIR PRACTICES WITH THE AND SO
I LOOK AT THE BACKGROUND.
I HAVE SEEN DISCRIMINATION.
I HAVE FACED DISCRIMINATION.
I HAVE BEEN IGNORED MY WERE
IGNORED BECAUSE THEY FOLLOWED
MY CASE AND SO THAT'S WHY I THE
THE OF MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL
AND THE COMMISSION TO BE
INCLUDE THAT AS A PROTECTED
CLASS IN AND WAS UNDER THE
ORDINANCE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SAMMY.
ANYBODY ONE PERSON.
HELLO MY NAME IS CINDY I'M A
RESIDENT FOR YEARS AND LOUDER
SINCE NINE YEARS IN ANN ARBOR
SO I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION TO
ENDORSE ALISHA'S PROPOSAL TO
INCLUDE A SEPARATE CATEGORY IN
OUR CITY NONDISCRIMINATION
ORDINANCE KEEPING CAST AS A
STANDALONE CATEGORY.
IT WOULD BE A GREAT TOOL FOR
US.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
IS THAT IT?
NO ONE ELSE WANTS TO SPEAK IN
PUBLIC COMMENTS ARE CLOSED.
THANK YOU.
LET'S JUST LOOK AT THE GENDER
AND PROVE THAT AND WE WILL HAVE
OUR MEETING WITH THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
CAN WE HAVE AN EMOTION TO PROVE
THE AGENDA?
I MOVE ANY ADDITIONS OR
SUBTRACTIONS CHANGES PERHAPS WE
CAN MOVE THE DISCUSSION UP
AFTER THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
THAT THOSE WHO ARE HERE CAN
MAKE.
OH THAT MAKES SENSE.
YEAH.
OK, OK.
AND I HAVE ONE OTHER CHALLENGE
YOU'RE GOING TO ADD ONE MORE
BULLET TO INTERNAL BUSINESS IF
NO ONE OBJECTS ABOUT THE
RENTERS ASSOCIATION DEMETRIS
COMMISSION,  OTHER
DISCUSSION, ANY DISCUSSION ALL
IN FAVOR I POST ON NEXT ON OUR
AGENDA IS OUR MEETING FINALLY
WITH THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
MELTON'S TO HONI AND WE'RE VERY
HAPPY HERE TO HAVE HIM HERE.
IS YOU REALLY HERE?
YES.
OH GOOD.
MR. DONI ARE THERE IS NOW HE'S
OUT ON THE SCREEN VARIOUS
DESIGNERS BUT HE'S NOT BE UP
THERE.
I DON'T KNOW IF EVENING THERE
ARE HELLO.
WELCOME.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO GLAD TO HAVE YOU HERE.
WE HAD HOPED TO MEET WITH YOU
SOONER BUT EVERY TIME WE
SCHEDULED A VISIT SOMETHING
WENT WRONG OR WENT RIGHT LIKE
THAT LIKE IN JANUARY WHEN YOU
HAD AND YOU CHOSE VICE
PRESIDENT KAMALA HARRIS INSTEAD
OF COMING HERE WE UNDERSTAND WE
APPRECIATE YOU JOINING WITH US
NOW.
THANK YOU.
AFTER THIRTY SIX YEARS
OF EXPERIENCE IN PLACES LIKE
LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY AND
CINCINNATI, OHIO AND PREDIX
ARIZONA, YOU PROBABLY THOUGHT
YOU'D SEEN IT ALL.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
SO FAR IT'S BEEN ABOUT A YEAR
AND A HALF.
I'LL BET THERE'S SOME THINGS
NEW YOU DIDN'T EVEN ASK THEM.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE THOROUGHLY
ENJOYED IT.
WE CLEARLY HAVE SOME CHALLENGES
IN OUR COMMUNITY BUT I'M
HONORED TO BE HERE TO WORK WITH
WITH THE COMMUNITY, WITH THE
STAFF, WITH THE CITY COUNCIL,
WITH ALL OF THE STAKEHOLDERS TO
TRY TO MOVE IN ARBOR FORWARD.
THERE IS SOME OPPORTUNITIES
HERE FOR US TO TO LOOK AT AN
YOU KNOW, CLEARLY WE HAVE THE
SAME KIND OF ISSUES HERE BUT
OTHER COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY ARE DEALING HOUSING
CHALLENGES, BEING ABLE TO
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF THOSE WHO
ARE UNHALLOWED THE SEAT SEEKING
FAIRNESS AND JUSTICE FOR
EVERYONE WHO'S A PART OF THE
COMMUNITY.
AND WHILE WE CAN'T DO ANYTHING
ABOUT IT NECESSARILY SEEING
WHAT IS TAKING PLACE REGARDING
GUN VIOLENCE ACROSS THE
COUNTRY, MY HOME IS LOUISVILLE,
KENTUCKY AND I KNEW ONE OF THE
PEOPLE THAT WAS KILLED RECENTLY
AS A RESULT OF THE SHOOTING AND
IT'S JUST SOMETHING THAT'S
THAT'S HARD TO TO FATHOM THAT
WE HAVE A SOCIETY BUT IT'S
THERE.
SO I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO TO SPEAK WITH YOU ALL.
I HAVE BEEN IN THIS BUSINESS
ALMOST 40 YEARS.
I'VE WORKED THIS IS MY CITY.
YOU KNOW, MY HUSBAND MY FATHER
,GRANDFATHER AND I WAS HONORED
TO GET THE OPPORTUNITY TO COME
HERE.
PEOPLE HERE HAVE QUESTIONS THEY
LIKE TO ASK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS?
HI.
I'M DOING A CLASS ONE OF THE
COMMISSIONERS I'VE BEEN A
COMMISSIONER FOR ABOUT FOUR
YEARS SO WE'VE SEEN ALSO DURING
MY TIME I'VE SEEN A COUPLE
OF CITY ADMINISTRATORS COME
THROUGH.
I MUST SAY THAT YOU DO NOT LOOK
LIKE YOU COULD BE A GRANDFATHER
AND I DON'T SAY THAT TO BUTTER
YOU UP BUT SO THERE ARE A
NUMBER OF THINGS THAT ARE GOING
ON WITHIN THE CITY IN REGARDS
TO EQUITY, DIVERSITY AND
INCLUSION.
CAN YOU SHARE WHAT YOUR
THOUGHTS ARE ON EQUITY AND
DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND HOW IT
RELATES TO THE CITY?
>> YES, WHEN I CAME IN
OCTOBER OF TWENTY ONE THE CITY
UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE CITY
COUNCIL HAD MADE A COMMITMENT
TO BEGIN TO BUILD AN
INFRASTRUCTURE FOCUSING ON
GITAE WITHIN THE GOVERNMENT.
WE WERE AT THE TIME TRYING TO
HIRE A MANAGER FOR DGI ONE
COMING HERE AND REVIEWING WHAT
WE WERE DOING.
I MADE A DECISION THAT THE
POSITION THAT WE WERE TRYING TO
FILL WAS NOT AT THE RIGHT LEVEL
SO WE ELEVATED IT TO BE A
DIRECTOR.
THAT PERSON NEEDED TO REPORT
DIRECTLY TO ME NOT ANYONE ELSE
WE WERE ABLE TO TO BRING ON A
PERSON TO TO WORK BOTH
INTERNALLY AND EXTERNALLY WITH
WITH OUR COMMUNITY INTERNALLY
WE HAVE MADE SOME STRIDES BUT
WE HAVE A WAYS TO GO AS IT
RELATES TO REALLY PUTTING FORTH
A DIVERSE WORKFORCE.
WE HAVE SOME EQUITY ISSUES THAT
WE HAVE BEEN TRYING TO ADDRESS.
WE'RE ALSO DEVELOPING SOME
TRAINING CURRICULUM FOR THE
STAFF IN ORDER FOR US TO BE NOT
ONLY SENSITIVE BUT AT THE
OPERATIONAL LEVEL WE NEED TO
HAVE DCI FULLY INCORPORATED UP
AND DOWN THE ORGANIZATION INTO
OUR POLICIES, INTO OUR
PRACTICES AND REALLY CREATE A
SPACE FOR US TO MATURE.
WE ALSO NEED TO BUILD
RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS
WITH OTHER STAKEHOLDERS AND
INSTITUTIONS IN THE COMMUNITY
OF ANN ARBOR THAT EMBRACE THE
VALUE THAT THE EIB BRINGS.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS WE'VE
BEEN SAYING TO OUR EMPLOYEES
WHO MAYBE ARE NOT AS AWARE
OF THE IMPORTANCE OF THE DENHA
DOESN'T TAKE ANYTHING FROM
ANYONE.
WHAT IT DOES IS BRINGS MORE TO
THE TABLE AND RECOGNIZES THE
VALUE THAT EVERY INDIVIDUAL
THAT COMES TO US HAS AND WE
NEED TO BE MORE INTENTIONAL
ABOUT ENSURING THAT WE HAVE
EQUITY, THAT WE HAVE DIVERSITY
AND THAT WE HAVE INCLUSION.
THE LAST THING I'LL SAY SORRY
FOR THE LONG ANSWER THE LAST
THING I'LL SAY IS THAT IF YOU
WERE TO ASK ME ABOUT THE THREE
DIVERSITY EQUITY INCLUSION TO
ME DIVERSITY IS THE EASIEST BUT
TO DEAL WITH EQUITY AND TO DEAL
WITH INCLUSION AND INCLUSION
FOR US IS IRRESPECTIVE OF TITLE
IRRESPECTIVE OF LEVEL WITHIN
THE ORGANIZATION WHEN WE'RE
DOING THINGS THAT WE'RE
FORMULATING POLICIES,
FORMULATING PRACTICES WHEN WE
ARE ADDRESSING ISSUES RELATED
TO PAY ARE WE REALLY BEING
INCLUSIVE IN HOW WE DO THAT?
SO IN THE BUDGET THAT IS COMING
I'LL BE PRESENTING ON MONDAY
NIGHT I WILL BE MAKING SOME
COMMENTS ABOUT SOME ADDITIONS
THAT WE NEED TO ADD IN ORDER TO
BUILD OUR INFRASTRUCTURE AND
IT'S NOT GOING TO GET US WHERE
WE NEED TO GO OVERNIGHT.
BUT I AM PLEASED WITH THE
DIRECTION THAT WE'RE TAKING.
THANK YOU.
I HAVE QUESTIONS I ACTUALLY
HAVE A FOLLOW UP QUESTION UNDER
THE IDEA THAT WE NEED TO KNOW
WHERE WE ARE IN ORDER TO KNOW
EXACTLY WHAT IT'LL TAKE TO GET
US WHERE WE'D LIKE TO BE.
DO YOU HAVE THOUGHTS OR PLANS
FOR A GLOBAL ASSESSMENT OF THE
DEA STATUS OF THE CITY?
THE U.S. DIMENSION OPHELIA OR
TO SEE HAS WE HAVE ENGAGED
ALONG THE LINES OF CREATING
SPACE TO REVIEW WHAT WE'RE
CURRENTLY DOING, WHAT SHE IS IN
THE PROCESS OF DOING NOW WE'RE
DOING THAT.
WE DON'T REALLY USE THE WORD
DEPARTMENT HERE.
WE SAY SERVICE AREA BUT IT
MEANS ESSENTIALLY THE SAME
THING BUT WE'RE GOING AREA BY
AREA.
WE'RE WE'RE ALSO WE HAVE
CREATED A NUMBER
OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR
INDIVIDUALS THAT WORK HERE TO
ENGAGE AND SHARE THEIR
EXPERIENCE AND THEIR REALITY
WORKING IN THE PARTICULAR AREAS
OF THE ORGANIZATION WE HAVE
PROCURED A SOFTWARE THAT WILL
ALLOW US TO RING TRAINING IN
FOR OUR WORKFORCE.
WE ALSO HAVE BEEN DOING MORE
ENGAGED WITH LABOR
ORGANIZATIONS SO WE ARE
METICULOUSLY TRYING TO GO
THROUGH THE ENTIRE ORGANIZATION
ON THE STAFF SIDE TO ASSESS
EXACTLY WHERE WE ARE IN THE
AREAS THAT I MENTIONED.
AND SO IT'S WRITTEN POLICY.
IT'S THE OPERATIONAL DIRECTIVES
THAT GUIDE US DAY TO DAY.
IT'S ALSO ASSESSING OUR
SITUATION WITH REGARDS TO
COMPENSATION AND WE'LL BE
ADDRESSING SOME OF THAT ON
MONDAY NIGHT AS WELL.
WE HAVE SOME I'LL JUST CALL
THEM INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES HERE
THAT NEED TO BE ADDRESSED AND
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO SPEND
SOME MONEY TO DO IT.
BUT I DO SUPPORT DOING THAT IN
ORDER TO MAKE THE ORGANIZATION
GET BETTER YOU HAVE GOT TO HAVE
THE ASSESSMENTS DONE INTERNALLY
PRIMARILY
IN TERMS OF GETTING
STARTED.
YES, OK, MINE THAT LAURA HAS
ONLY BEEN HERE AS A MATTER
OF MONTHS AND PART OF WHAT THE
NEXT BUDGET WILL BRING IS SOME
ADDITIONAL STAFF FOR THE AREA
THAT SHE OVERSEES BECAUSE THIS
IS CLEARLY NOT A ONE PERSON IT
CAN'T BE A ONE PERSON OPERATION
IF WE'RE GOING TO HAVE ANY
LEVEL OF SUCCESS.
SO IF THE BUDGET GETS APPROVED,
I DON'T WANT TO I CAN'T GET IN
FRONT OF THE COUNCIL IF THEY
APPROVE WHAT WE'VE REQUESTED
THEN WE'LL MAKE SOME ADDITIONS
THERE.
WE'RE ALSO NEED TO PROVIDE HER
SOME FUNDING TO PROCURE IF WE
WERE GOING TO USE CONSULTATIVE
HELP.
SHE HAS A BUDGET TO DO THAT
RIGHT NOW SHE DOESN'T HAVE
BECAUSE SHE JUST STARTED SO I'M
OPEN TO WHATEVER THERE'LL BE A
RECOMMENDATION MADE TO ME
BETWEEN LAURA AND
DEBORAH BUXTON WHO WAS OUR
AJARN LEADER ON A PATH FORWARD
.
AND SO WHAT I DON'T YET HAVE IS
COST METHODOLOGY AND THE
RECOMMENDED APPROACH BUT THAT'S
WHERE WE'RE HEADED.
IT'S SECURITY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR BEING
HERE.
I'M COMMISSIONER SILVER.
I'M CURIOUS IN YOUR MIND IN
TERMS OF A FRAMEWORK MOVING
FORWARD FOR THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION IN COLLABORATION
WITH YOUR OFFICE, IN YOUR
EFFORTS, HOW DO YOU IMAGINE
THAT MOVING FORWARD IN TERMS
OF AN IDEAL PARTNERSHIP?
WELL, I'LL GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE
.
ONE OF THE FIRST ASSIGNMENTS
THAT I GAVE LAURA ON STARTING
WAS TO CONTINUE DIRECT
COLLABORATION ON WITH KOLDYKE
WHO I HAD ENGAGED WITH BEFORE
SHE STARTED.
SO I MADE A COMMITMENT TO THEM
THAT I WOULD SUPPORT THE
CREATION OF AN ABHA COORDINATOR
FOR THE CITY.
IT'S A POSITION THAT WE HAVE
NOT HAD THAT POSITION WOULD
REPORT TO HER AND I ASKED HER
TO COLLABORATE WITH THEM ON THE
DEVELOPMENT OF WHAT THE
POSITION SHOULD LOOK LIKE.
WELL BY THE SAME TOKEN, IF
THERE ARE POLICIES OR PRACTICES
THAT YOUR COMMISSION THAT WE
EAT WE EITHER ARE UNDERTAKING
OR LOOKING AT AND WE WOULD
BENEFIT FROM THE VALUE OF THE
ADVICE AND COUNSEL THAT YOU
COULD GIVE US.
I WOULD WANT HER TO TO WORK
DIRECTLY WITH THE COMMISSION ON
THOSE THINGS.
I UNDERSTAND WHAT YOUR ROLE IS
AND I UNDERSTAND WHAT OURS IS.
BUT FOR US TO BE THE BEST
ORGANIZATION WE CAN BE, FOR US
TO BE THE BEST COMMUNITY THAT
WE CAN BE, WE HAVE TO MOVE
FORWARD.
ANIKULAPO TO FASSETT WE IN MY
OPINION WE CANNOT AFFORD TO
SIMPLY STAY IN THE STAFF LANE
AND NOT REACH OUT FOR THE VALUE
OF EXPERIENCE AND INFORMATION
EDUCATION THAT OTHERS CAN BRING
US.
AND LAURA CERTAINLY SEES THAT
SHE BELIEVES THAT AND SO WE
BOTH WOULD BE VERY OPEN TO
WORKING COLLABORATIVELY WITH
YOU ON AREAS OF COMMON INTEREST
.
THANK HAD YOUR QUESTIONS AND
ONE.
HI, I'M LINDA WINCKLER.
ONE AREA OF COMMON INTEREST IS
IS HOPEFULLY NEAR PASSIVIST
SOON TO BE REALITY OF AN ARMED
RESPONSE AND SILLY.
SO I JUST WONDER IF YOU COULD
SORT OF CATCH US UP WHERE WE
ARE ON THAT AND WHAT YOU SEE
THE NEXT STEPS MIGHT BE.
WE MADE A COMMITMENT A YEAR AGO
TO ALLOCATE THREE AND A HALF
MILLION FROM THE OPERA FUNDING
TO PROVIDE SORT OF A FOUNDATION
TO GET STARTED.
WE UNDERTAKEN A COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS TO GAIN
INPUT FROM PEOPLE
ABOUT WHAT
THEY SAW AS PROPER
CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE RESPONSE
MODEL I WILL SHARE WITH YOU
THAT THE COMMUNITY HAS
DIFFERING VIEWS ON WHAT UNARM
RESPONSE COULD BE OR SHOULD BE
.
I WILL BE ADDRESSING UNARM
RESPONSE IN MY COMMENTS TO
COUNCIL ON MONDAY FROM A
BUDGETARY STANDPOINT SO I WON'T
GO INTO THOSE HERE WHAT THE
NEXT SORT OF ORGANIZATIONAL
STEP OF THE CITY WILL NEED TO
PUT FORWARD AN RFP TO LOOK FOR
A VENDOR WHO WOULD ACTUALLY
IMPLEMENT THE UNARMED RESPONSE
MODEL.
WE DO NOT SEE IT AS SOMETHING
THAT COULD OR SHOULD BE CARRIED
OUT INTERNALLY SO WE FEEL THE
WAY THAT IT'S BEEN TALKED ABOUT
IS THE POLICY MAKERS WOULD
RECEIVE A RECOMMEND DAYSON FROM
THE STAFF BASED ON THE RFP
PROCESS REGARDING OPTIONS FOR
IMPLEMENTING THE MODEL.
I THINK YOU WILL BE PLEASED
WITH WHAT YOU HEAR ME SAY ON
MONDAY IN TERMS OF PROVIDING
FUNDING BECAUSE WHILE THE THREE
POINT FIVE MILLION IS NICE THAT
MONEY WILL NOT LAST FOREVER.
SO WE DO HAVE IN OUR PROPOSALS
TO CONTINUE TO BUILD THAT SO
THAT WE CAN SOLIDIFY AND THEN
ONCE WE REALLY THE COUNCIL
ACCEPTS THE RECOMMENDATION
COMING OUT OF THE RFP PROCESS,
WE WOULD THEN NEED TO BEGIN THE
PROCESS OF ENGAGING WITH
WHOEVER IS CHOSEN TO DEVELOP
AND IMPLEMENT THE PROGRAM.
AS A PERSON WHO HAS BEEN ON
SORT OF BOTH SIDES OF THE
GOVERNMENT OVER THE EXTENT
OF MY CAREER, I CAN SAY TO YOU
IN ALL SINCERITY WE WILL HAVE
SOME GROWING PAINS THAT WE HAVE
TO WORK THROUGH AS A COMMUNITY
AND DETERMINE WHAT'S
APPROPRIATE AND WHAT IS IT YOU
KNOW, AS AN EXAMPLE WHEN WE
WENT THROUGH A PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS SOME PEOPLE
BELIEVE THAT UNARM RESPONSE
SHOULD BE USED WHEN IT COMES TO
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CALLS.
OTHER PEOPLE HAVE THE TOTAL
OPPOSITE VIEW OF THAT AND SO
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO SETTLE
ON WHAT IS THE RIGHT APPROACH
IN ANN ARBOR.
WHERE ARE WE WILLING TO GO WITH
IT AND FIGURE OUT WHAT'S
APPROPRIATE FOR OUR RESPONSE
AND WHAT IS IT BASED ON WHAT
I'VE HEARD IN A YEAR AND A HALF
SINCE WE DON'T HAVE A PROGRAM
ALREADY UP AND RUNNING
REALISTICALLY I KNOW THAT WE
CANNOT POSSIBLY BE EVERYTHING
THAT PEOPLE HAVE MENTIONED TO
ME THAT THEY WANT TO SEE OUR
RESPONSE.
DO SO WE'LL HAVE TO FIGURE THAT
OUT.
BUT IT WILL MAKE US A STRONG
COMMUNITY ONCE WE GET OFF THE
GROUND IT WILL PROVIDE AN
ALTERNATIVE TO MEMBERS OUR
COMMUNITY WHO DO NOT WANT TO
CALL THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I THINK
IT'S NOT PREMATURE TO SAY THAT
WE SHOULD EXPECT IS WE HAVE TO
HAVE A TRANSPARENT PROGRAM
WHERE WE CAN SEE WELL, HOW MANY
RULES DO THEY MAKE AND WHAT
KIND OF CALLS DO THEY GO ON AND
HOW WERE THEY ABLE TO BRING
RESOLUTION TO THE MATTERS WHERE
THEY INTERVENE THAT THAT SHOULD
BE SORT OF LOW HANGING FRUIT
FOR US TO LOOK AT THE GOOD THAT
THE PROGRAM CAN DO AND WHATEVER
THE MISTAKES ARE WORKED THROUGH
THEM AND MAKE IT BETTER AND
KEEP MOVING.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR WORK
ON THAT.
WE I THINK WE ALL DO.
YES.
IT'S SOMETHING I THINK WE'RE
ALL INTERESTED IN AND I HOPE
THAT IT'S SAFE HOUSE AND
AIRPARK AND THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION ARE ARE CAN BE
INVOLVED IN SOME OF THAT
THINKING THROUGH DISCUSSIONS.
WE'RE VERY INTERESTED.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS BEFORE WE
LET OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
WHO'S PROBABLY ANXIOUS TO GO?
WELL, THANK YOU VERY, VERY MUCH
FOR I'M SORRY I'M SORRY I
DIDN'T SEE THAT.
HI PALMETTOS COMMISSIONER AND
MINE IS MORE OF A GENERAL
QUESTION AND THAT IS OF THE
PROGRAMS OR IDEAS THAT YOU MAY
HAVE SUCCESSFULLY IMPLEMENTED
IN PREVIOUS EMPLOYMENT.
WHAT WOULD YOU RECOMMEND ANY
ONE OR SEVERAL OF THOSE BEING
IMPLEMENTED HERE IN ANN ARBOR
TO ENHANCE OUR CITY?
WE ALREADY ENJOY THE
DISTINCTION OF BEING ONE OF THE
BEST PLACES TO LIVE ENJOYING A
NUMBER OF OTHER THINGS.
BUT WE'RE NOT PERFECT AND WHILE
WE MAY BE TRENDING IN THAT WE
AS YOU'VE INDICATED HAVE WORK
TO DO SO I'M MORE INTERESTED IN
LEARNING WHAT YOU HAVE
SUCCESSFULLY IMPLEMENTED IN
OTHER EMPLOYMENT THAT YOU WOULD
IDEALLY RECOMMEND WE COULD
IMPLEMENT HERE.
THAT'S AN INTERESTING QUESTION
WE ONE OF THE ADJUSTMENTS THAT
I'VE NEEDED TO MAKE COMING HERE
IS TO ADJUST TO THE SCALE
OF ANN ARBOR.
BY FAR THIS IS THE SMALLEST
COMMUNITY I'VE EVER WORKED IN
MOST RECENTLY BEFORE COMING TO
ANN ARBOR I WORK FOR THE CITY
OF PHENIX FOR OVER SEVEN YEARS
AND BY CONTRAST THE CITY
OF PHENIX IS THE LARGEST
COUNCIL MANAGER FORM
OF GOVERNMENT IN THE UNITED
STATES.
SO I WENT FROM FIFTEEN THOUSAND
EMPLOYEES TO EIGHT HUNDRED
EMPLOYEES AND PEOPLE THAT HAVE
WORKED WITH THE PEOPLE THAT
HAVE KNOWN ME OVER THE YEARS
HAVE ALWAYS KNOWN ME TO BE A
STRAIGHT SHOOTER AND SO I'M
GOING TO GIVE YOU A VERY
STRAIGHT ANSWER WHICH MAY OR
MAY NOT SETTLE WITH SOME OF THE
COMMUNITY BUT AT LEAST THEY
WILL RESPECT ME FOR IT.
WHEN I CAME HERE ONE OF THE
FIRST THINGS THAT I NOTICED IN
LISTENING TO PEOPLE BECAUSE I'M
VERY BIG ON GOING AROUND THE
COMMUNITY LISTENING TO WHAT
PEOPLE ARE IS OUR COMMUNITY HAS
A SPLIT VIEW ABOUT GROWTH AND
DEVELOPMENT.
I'VE HAD A LONG HISTORY
OF SUCCESSES IN TERMS
OF HELPING TO SPUR GROWTH AND
DEVELOPMENT AND I'M NOT TALKING
ABOUT TEN MILLION SKYSCRAPERS
OR THINGS LIKE THAT BUT OUR
COMMUNITY NEEDS MORE DENSITY.
OUR COMMUNITY NEEDS HOUSING,
NOT JUST AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
OUR WORKFORCE HOUSING.
WE NEED HOUSING AT ALL LEVELS.
WE SHOULD NOT VIEW GROWTH AND
DENSITY AS A BAD THING BUT AS
AN OPPORTUNITY.
AND IF YOU LOOK AT WHERE
CINCINNATI WAS WHEN I WENT
THERE 2006 AND WHERE IT WAS IN
2008, IT WAS LIGHT YEARS
OF DIFFERENCE.
I ACTUALLY AM THE ARCHITECT
OF THE OFFICE OF ACCOUNTABILITY
AND TRANSPARENCY THAT PHENIX IS
NOW PUT IN PLACE.
THAT IS THE PHENIX VERSION
OF WHAT IT IS IN LEXINGTON,
KENTUCKY.
I WAS INSTRUMENTAL IN
DEVELOPING AND HELPING THE
COMMUNITY TO EMBRACE THE NOTION
OF A TRANSIT TAX TO ENSURE THAT
THERE WAS A PUBLIC TRANSIT
BUSSES IN LEXINGTON WHEN I
SERVED AS THE DEPUTY MAYOR
OF LOUISVILLE I WAS DIRECTLY
INVOLVED IN THE MERGER OF CITY
AND COUNTY GOVERNMENT IN
JEFFERSON COUNTY, KENTUCKY AND
YOU KNOW, I COULD TICK THROUGH
A LOT OF DIFFERENT KINDS
OF THINGS THAT I'VE BEEN
INVOLVED IN INCLUDING HIRING
THE FIRST OUTSIDE AND FIRST
AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLICE CHIEF
IN THE HISTORY OF CINCINNATI,
OHIO BEING DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN
HIRING THE FIRST WOMAN FIRE
CHIEF IN THE HISTORY OF PHENIX,
ARIZONA, APPOINTING THE FIRST
AFRICAN-AMERICAN FEMALE
ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF IN
LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY.
AND THE REASON I MENTIONED BOTH
OF THOSE THINGS
MY EFFORTS IN
CITIES HAVE INVOLVED BLACK
PEOPLE PROJECTS AND ISSUES AND
THE REASON I WAS INVITED TO
COME TO ANN ARBOR IS BECAUSE
OF MY BACKGROUND.
I HAVE A HISTORY OF WORKING ON
DIFFICULT THINGS AND BEING ABLE
TO HELP A COMMUNITY ACHIEVE
RESULTS.
SO IN OUR CITY WE HAVE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH.
WE HAVE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
DOWNTOWN TO GET BETTER AND BY
BETTER I MEAN IT NEEDS TO GET
CLEANER.
IT NEEDS TO HAVE A HIGHER
PERCEPTION OF SAFETY.
WE HAVE TO GET A BETTER HANDLE
ON TAKING CARE OF OUR ROAD
INFRASTRUCTURE AND WHILE IT'S
NOT SOMETHING THAT I CAN FIX ON
MY OWN AS EDUCATED AS OUR
COMMUNITY IS, THERE ARE STILL
INSTANCES WHERE WE STRUGGLE
WITH TOLERANCE HERE AND I'M
JUST BEING STRAIGHT WHEN I SAY
THAT WE CAN AND SHOULD AND NEED
TO GET BETTER IN SOME OF THOSE
AREAS AND WE'VE GOT TO GET
BETTER AT POLICING HERE.
WE DON'T HAVE A POLICE
DEPARTMENT LIKE MINNEAPOLIS OR
OTHER PLACES.
WE DON'T HAVE THE EVIDENCE
OF THAT HERE.
BUT THERE ARE STILL THINGS LIKE
TRANSPARENT WHERE WE CAN
IMPROVE.
I HAVE HELPED DEPARTMENTS TO DO
THAT.
I HAVE NEGOTIATED A CONSENT
DECREE WITH THE DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE AND IMO YOU BETWEEN
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT, THE
BLACK LIBERATION FRONT AND THE
CITY OF CINCINNATI IN FEDERAL
COURT ALL OF THE KIND OF THINGS
THAT I HAVE DONE COUPLED WITH
THE INTEGRITY THAT I STAND ON
AND VALUING WHAT MY NAME IS
WHICH IS AT THE END OF THE DAY
ALL I HAVE MY PARENTS GAVE ME
MY NAME AND MY FOUNDATION AND I
DO NOT COMPROMISE IT FOR ANYONE
.
SO I THINK WHENEVER I'M DONE
HERE THE CITY WILL BE A BETTER
PLACE BECAUSE OF THE EFFORTS
OF THE STAFF AND ME WORKING IN
THE MANNER THAT I DO IN
PROVIDING THE KIND
OF LEADERSHIP THAT I HAVE THE
ABILITY TO PROVIDE AND THE
COLLABORATIVE SPIRIT THAT I
BRING TO THE TABLE.
AND SO THAT'S A LONG ANSWER TO
YOUR QUESTION.
BUT WHEN YOU GET TO THE STAGE
IN LIFE THAT I'M AT JUST VERY
COMFORTABLE BEING CANDID WITH
PEOPLE WHEN THEY ASK ME SERIOUS
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU FOR THE QUESTION AND
THANK YOU FOR THE ANSWER.
THANK YOU VERY, VERY HELPFUL.
ANYTHING ELSE?
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> WE REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
VISIT.
THANK YOU.
AND I'M WILLING TO COME BACK TO
YOU.
YOU ALL INVITE ME AND ALL THE
WORK MAYBE EVEN IN THE CHAMBERS
WHERE YOU ARE MAYBE THEY'LL BE
BETTER NEXT TIME WE LOOK
FORWARD TO IT.
THANK YOU.
GOOD NIGHT.
WELL OUR NEXT AGENDA ITEM WE'VE
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU UNDERSTOOD
BUT WE HAVE CHANGED THE THE
AGENDA TO HAVE THE QUESTION
OF CAST THE BATTLE.
YES.
THE QUESTION OF CASBY NEXT THE
NEXT THING ON OUR AGENDA AND
THE AND WHAT HAS HAPPENED IS
WE'VE GOT A PROPOSAL TO PUT
KAAS AS ONE OF THE PROTECTED
CLASSES IN THE NON DISCRIMINATE
ORDINANCE.
COULD I JUST YES.
PLEASE SAY A FEW COMMENTS.
SO FIRSTLY I WANT TO THANK ALL
THE MEMBERS OF THE AMBIGA.
I HOPE I'M SAYING THAT
CORRECTLY.
ASSOCIATION OF NORTH AMERICA
FOR COMING AND THANKS FOR
SHARING HOW CLASSES IMPACTED
YOU.
SO IT'S A DENHA AND A
APPROACHED ME ABOUT A MONTH OR
SO AGO ABOUT INCLUDING CAST AS
A PROTECTED CLASS AND
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE AND
I BEGAN TO EXPLORE WHETHER IT
COULD FIT UNDER ANCESTRY OR
RACE WHICH AFTER DOING MORE
RESEARCH I DIDN'T BELIEVE THAT
IT FIT THERE AND AFTER ALL SO
THE MEMBER SHARING MORE WITH ME
ABOUT WHY IT DOESN'T FIT THERE
FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO DON'T
KNOW, CASTE IS A COMPLEX TYPE
OF DISCRIMINATE AND THAT'S
BASED ON INTERSECTING
IDENTITIES INCLUDING POLITICAL
,ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL
IDENTITIES.
IT INCLUDES THE COLOR OF YOUR
SKIN.
IT'S INTERGENERATIONAL AND IT'S
BASED ON WHERE YOU'RE BORN, WHO
WHO YOU MARRY AND MANY OTHER
FACTORS.
IT'S ONE OF THE OLDEST FORMS
OF SOCIAL STRATIFICATION.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT THE
BRITISH LOVED TO REALLY THEY
HELPED CRYSTALLIZE IT DIVIDE
AND CONQUER.
THEY WERE GREAT AT REALLY
GETTING OUR COUNTRY TO FIGHT
EACH OTHER.
I ALSO WANT TO MENTION THAT
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT IS
PREVALENT ACROSS SOUTH ASIAN
COUNTRIES AND IT'S ACROSS
DIFFERENT RELIGIONS BOTH IT'S
NOT JUST HINDUISM.
IT'S IT'S PREVALENT IN ISLAM
AND SIKHISM, JAINISM, BUDDHISM,
CHRISTIANITY FOR EXAMPLE, IF I
WERE TO CONVERT FROM HINDUISM
TO MOST LIKELY THEY WOULD STILL
EXPERIENCE DISCRIMINATION AND
OPPRESSION BECAUSE OF THEIR
CASTE.
THIS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT
THING IS THAT YOU GUYS HELP TO
HIGHLIGHT THAT THIS
DISCRIMINATION IS HAPPENING
HERE RIGHT AMONG OUR
COMMUNITIES HERE AND THAT IS SO
IMPORTANT FOR US TO TAKE A
STANCE ON, YOU KNOW, ESPECIALLY
NOW HEADING INTO APPIA HERITAGE
MONTH.
IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE AS A
COMMUNITY HOW WE DISCRIMINATE
AGAINST EACH OTHER AND
PERPETUATE THINGS LIKE ANTI
BLACKNESS.
I ALSO WANT TO MENTION THAT
SEATTLE HAS RECENTLY CHANGED
THEIR NONDISCRIMINATION
ORDINANCE AND THE STATE
OF CALIFORNIA HAS ALSO PROPOSED
A BILL.
SO THESE ARE ACTUAL
DISCRIMINATION CASES THAT ARE
BEING LITIGATED.
I WILL BE BRINGING IN THE ONLY
OTHER ASIAN-AMERICAN COUNCIL
MEMBER MY COLLEAGUE WENZHONG
INTO THIS AS WELL.
SHE'LL BE HELPING WITH THIS
EFFORT DENHA WE ARE GOING TO
WORK WITH ALL OF YOU AND MAKE
THIS HAPPEN.
SO I WANT TO THANK YOU AGAIN
FOR BEING HERE.
AND LIN, DO YOU WANT TO PLAY SO
JUST BRIEFLY JUMPING IN I WAS
TAKING A LOOK AT WHAT SEATTLE
HAS HAD PUT IT INTO PLACE AND I
FOUND THIS QUOTE THAT I THINK
PUTS MAYBE A BIT OF CONTEXT TO
WHAT WE DO HERE AT THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION AND WHAT WE'D
LIKE TO SEE HAPPEN IN THE CITY
FROM AN ORGANIZER WHO SAID THAT
IF IF YOU MARCHED IN THE BLACK
LIVES MATTER MOVEMENT OR YOU
DESIRE TO LIVE IN A SOCIETY
FREE OF RACISM, RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION, SEXISM OR
MISOGYNY, THEN YOU SHOULD BE
PAYING ATTENTION BECAUSE WHILE
CASTE OPPRESSION OR
DISCRIMINATION DOES NOT AFFECT
ALL AMERICANS, THE WAY IT
MANIFESTS ITSELF IS NO
DIFFERENT THAN OTHER TYPES
OF OPPRESSION UNDER CAPITALISM
AND THAT'S AN ORGANIZER NAMES
TO WANT AND REFLECTING ON THE
WORK IN SEATTLE AND THAT'S THAT
ORDINANCE UPDATE WAS VOTED SIX
TO ONE.
SO IT SOUNDS LIKE IT WAS
SOMETHING THAT THE CITY COUNCIL
THERE REALLY WAS SUPPORTIVE
OF AND SOMETHING THAT THE
COMMUNITY WAS DEMANDING SO IT'S
I THINK WORTHY OF OUR TIME TO
PUT A LITTLE BIT OF RESEARCH
AND TIME INTO TALKING TO
COMMUNITY MEMBERS THAT WE KNOW
AND HOPEFULLY WE CAN HAVE THOSE
REFLECTIONS TO AS WE KIND OF AS
WE LOOK AT THIS LANGUAGE AND
HOPEFULLY WE CAN ANTICIPATE
MORE COMMUNITY MEMBERS COME
FORWARD TO SPEAK BECAUSE I
THINK THE OBJECTIVE REALLY IS
TO NOT ONLY JUST RECOGNIZE THE
FOR A WAY OF ASSISTANCE RIGHT
THROUGH COMPLAINTS THAT WE HAVE
A PROCESS HERE THAT SHOULD
APPLY TO ALL PROTECTED CLASSES
THAT WE THAT WE SEE TRY TO
HELP.
YEAH, YEAH.
YOU WOULD YOU DOES ANYONE HAVE
ANY QUESTIONS OR I CAN GO ON I
DO ACTUALLY HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS SO I'M I'M NOT
AGAINST THIS AT ALL ACTUALLY
I'VE HEARD OF THIS BEFORE AND
SO I I THINK THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT IT SEEMS VERY SIMPLE TO
DO.
WE JUST ADDED MY FIRST QUESTION
WOULD BE DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA
HOW MANY PEOPLE THIS AFFECTS OR
WOULD AFFECT WITHIN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR?
AND I SUPPOSE THAT'S KIND
OF HARD BECAUSE SO MANY PEOPLE
COME INTO THE CITY TO WORK.
YEAH, RIGHT.
AND IT WOULD BE PROTECTIONS FOR
PEOPLE LIKE ME WHO DON'T
NECESSARILY OWN A HOME OR
SOMETHING LIKE WITHIN THE CITY
LIMITS BUT ACTUALLY COME INTO
THE CITY TO WORK.
THE SECOND QUESTION IS AS I WAS
LISTENING TO PUBLIC COMMENT AS
A PERSON FOR EXAMPLE, IF I'M
HIRING SOMEBODY HOW HOW WOULD I
KNOW WHAT CAST SOMEBODY IS IN?
I HEARD SOMEBODY MENTION A LAST
NAME BUT WHAT OTHER WAYS DOES
SOMEBODY KNOW WHAT CAST PERSON
IS IN BESIDES A LAST NAME?
THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
AND YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT YOU
GUYS WOULD BE THAT WOULD BE
GOOD TO ANSWER IT.
I WANT TO ADDRESS THE FIRST
QUESTION THOUGH ABOUT IS IT
POSSIBLE TO QUANTIFY IMPACT
LIKE HOW MANY PEOPLE WOULD BE
AFFECTED?
YOU KNOW, THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT MANIFESTS IN NEPAL AND
PAKISTAN, BHUTAN, MALDIVES.
IT'S IN A IT'S IN A VARIETY
OF COUNTRIES.
IT'S ACROSS A VARIETY
OF RELIGIONS
.
IT'S NOT JUST HINDUISM.
SO I I'M NOT SURE HOW WE WOULD
EXACTLY QUANTIFY IT.
YEAH, YEAH.
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO JUMP IN
ARE YOU GOING TO BE THE IDEA
THAT YOU DID NOT WANT TO DO SO
ON MAJOR NEW YEAR'S EVE YOU
KNOW SENTIMENTALIZED WHICH
WOULD MAKE A DIFFERENCE IF YOU
GO INTO OTHER COUNTRIES SO IT
GETS TO MAKE A BIG CITY OR SO
EVERYTHING IS KIND OF A EVEN
TODAY I GO TO MY VILLAGE, I CAN
GO TO AKRAMI CALLED THE BRAHMIN
LOOK AT IT I AND GO I HAVE TO
SEE MY SAFETY OR ANY OTHER CAR
SO IT'S ALL COMPLETELY APART
HAD COMPLETELY DISCRIMINATED IN
THE NATION FIGHTING WITH
ANOTHER NATION BELIEVE IT.
SO THERE ARE DIFFERENT
QUESTIONS THEY'LL FIND OUT IF
YOU FROM THE STREET EVEN THIS
AREA THEY'LL FIND IT OUT.
SAME THING HERE.
SO THAT'S HOW THEY DO THAT THE
PROBING QUESTION YEAH THOSE ARE
ACTUALLY ILLEGAL EMPLOYMENT
QUESTIONS I ASKED IN AN
INTERVIEW BUT THAT'S A WHOLE
NOTHER PRESENTATION.
OK, SO THE ASIAN-AMERICAN
COMMUNITY, THE LARGEST RACIAL
ETHNIC MINORITY IN THE CITY SO
LAST I CHECKED AT THE LAST
CENSUS WAS ABOUT EIGHTEEN
PERCENT.
OK AND THERE IS A SPLIT I THINK
BETWEEN ASIAN INDIANS, CHINESE,
AMERICANS, KOREANS.
THERE ARE VERY SOUTHEAST
SOUTHEAST ASIAN ASIANS BUT WE
ARE ONE OF THE LARGER
METROPOLITANS IN THE STATE WITH
THE LARGEST ASIAN-AMERICAN
COMMUNITY.
SO I THINK WHATEVER STATEMENT
WE CAN MAKE ON BEHALF OF THE
COMMUNITY REFLECTS I THINK AN
INTEREST THAT THE ENTIRE
COMMUNITY HAS AND MAKING SURE I
AGREE THEY'RE PROTECTED
ESPECIALLY IN THE FACE OF A LOT
OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS AFTER WITH
THE ANTI ASIAN HEAT WORK AND
GUN VIOLENCE WITH ATLANTA
SHOOTINGS OF PEOPLE TALK ABOUT
HOW IT WORKS WITHIN OUR
COMMUNITIES EITHER DIRECTED AT
US BETWEEN EACH OTHER, YOU
KNOW, FROM US TO OTHER
COMMUNITIES.
SO THIS THIS MIGHT BE A GOOD
EXERCISE TO TALK ABOUT CALM
SAFETY HISTORY IDENTITIES MAKE
US WORK A LITTLE BIT HARDER TO
TO UNDERSTAND A PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT COMMUNITY HERE IN
THE CITY AT THE UNIVERSITY AND
HAVE FOLKS COMING IN FROM FROM
NEIGHBORING COMMUNITIES TO WORK
OR GO TO SCHOOL HERE.
I THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
TO RECOGNIZE TOO THAT SOMEONE
WHO IS UNINITIATED AND
UNINFORMED AND BORN IN THE
UNITED STATES WITHOUT MUCH
CONTACT WITH OTHER CULTURES
MIGHT NOT DISCRIMINATE ON THE
BASIS OF CASTE BUT WOULD
DISCRIMINATE ON THE BASIS
OF NATIONAL ORIGIN OR RACE NOT
INTO A GROUP DISCRIMINATION
WHERE YOU YOU ARE IN FACT BEING
REFUSED SERVICE OR DIMINISHED
IN SOME WAY WOULDN'T BE
RECOGNIZED HERE BECAUSE IT
WOULDN'T BE BASED ON NATIONAL
ORIGIN AND YET IT'S IT'S JUST
AS HARMFUL.
I MEAN IT IS A COMPARISON MIGHT
BE COLORISM AMONG FOLKS THAT
ARE THE DESCENDANTS OF SLAVERY
IN AMERICA RIGHT.
WHERE THE LIGHTER YOU ARE THE
STRAIGHTER YOUR HAIR THE MORE
BEAUTIFUL YOU'LL BE PERCEIVED
AS MOM AND I DO THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO CAPTURE ALL
OF THESE DIFFERENT WAYS IN
WHICH WE DIMINISH ONE ANOTHER
AND MAKE SURE THAT WE CAN HERE
IN A FORMAL WAY THE PROBLEMS
AND I HOPE THAT WE'RE GOING TO
FORM AT LEAST A LITTLE
COMMUNITY OR GROUP BECAUSE I'D
LIKE TO HEAR MORE ABOUT WHAT
PEOPLE'S EXPERIENCES HAVE BEEN.
I MEAN THERE IS A LOT OF OF
CONCERN AND FEAR AROUND THIS
AND SO SOMETHING MUST HAVE
TRIGGERED IT, YOU KNOW?
YEAH.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO LEARN ABOUT
THAT AND I THINK BECAUSE WE
HAVE THIS TRANSIENT KIND
OF COMMUNITY HERE BUT WE HAVE A
LARGE IMMIGRANT COMMUNITY, IT
MAKES SOME OF THOSE CULTURAL
KIND OF TRADITIONS THAT INTRA
GROUP DISCRIMINATION THAT
HAPPENS.
IT'S REALLY HAPPENING HERE, YOU
KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
BUT IT'S INTERESTING THAT YOU
BROUGHT UP COLORISM BECAUSE IN
LOOKING INTO THE ATTORNEYS LIKE
ME KNOW LEGAL DEPARTMENT THAT
WE DON'T HAVE ANCESTRY
NONDISCRIMINATION I GUESS AND
ANCESTRY YOU COULD ATTRIBUTE
LIKE TRIBAL IDENTITY YOU COULD
ATTRIBUTE A WHOLE HOST
OF ANCESTRAL IDENTITIES TO
THAT.
RIGHT.
SO THIS COULD ALSO BE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR US BEYOND
ADDING CASTE TO THINK MORE
HOLISTICALLY ABOUT HOW
INTERGROUP DISCRIMINATION
OF DIFFERENT CULTURES MANIFEST
HERE IN THE US.
HOW DO WE PROTECT PEOPLE
AGAINST TAKE A LIKE WHEN YOU
SAID THE WHOLE THING STARTED
FROM THAT TO YOU WHEN YOU SAY
WE'RE NOT WHAT COLOR THE MORE
COLORFUL YOU GOT IT RIGHT?
YEAH THIS IS THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT THE FORECLOSURE WE ARE
COLONIALISM STARTED.
OH HORRIBLE.
SO YEAH THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE EVEN
THOUGH IT'S COMPLEX IDENTITIES
IT'S REALLY IT'S BASED IN ANTI
BLACKNESS AND THAT IS REALLY
HOW PEOPLE KNOW WHAT CASTE YOU
BELONG TO.
YES.
I JUST WANT TO ADD ONE MORE
THING.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY ONE ONE
LAST HERE IN THE U.S. CITY
OF MICHIGAN THERE'S ONE FACULTY
MEMBER IN THE CLASS
OF DISCRIMINATION.
ANOTHER FACTOR IN AND THAT
DIDN'T HAPPEN THAT OH OH ZERO
THAT IS HAPPENING ALL OVER AND
PEOPLE ARE NOT COMING FORWARD
BECAUSE THEY'RE WORRIED ABOUT
THEIR JOB.
THEY'RE WORRIED ABOUT THEIR
FAMILY.
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN NEXT
BECAUSE OF SOMETHING THAT MAY
HAPPEN IT'S OH MY DEAR.
YEAH, WHAT IF IN THE LAST YEAR
IN THE CITY OF AN RIGHT NOW
THAT HAPPENED IN 2008 ONE
FACULTY MEMBER WAS KEPT MISSING
AND FOR LETTING US KNOW IT
MIGHT BE WORTH US TAKING A LOOK
AT WHAT ARE BIG INSTITUTIONS
DOING?
I KNOW HARVARD AMENDED THEIR
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE TO
INCLUDE CATHODES MICHIGAN HAS
SO IN TERMS OF NEXT STEPS I
SUGGESTED LANGUAGE FOR MARGAY.
I WANT TO GO OVER IT WITH LAND
IN TERMS OF US WRITING A
RESOLUTION WITH IT, I THINK
IT'S A GOOD IDEA.
THIS IS A COMPLEX ISSUE.
SO WHEN AND I CAN START THAT
AND WE'LL WORK WITH YOU THE
HONOR MEMBERS I HOPE I'M SAYING
THAT RIGHT DENHA MEMBERS AND
ALSO BRING YOU ALL IN.
DOES THAT SOUND LIKE A GOOD
NEXT NEXSTAR?
WELL, IS IT POSSIBLE TO MAYBE
WITHIN THE NEXT TWO TO THREE
WEEKS ORGANIZE SOME SORT
OF LISTENING SESSION SO THAT
YOU KNOW, WE CAN REALLY JUST
SIT AND TALK WITH FOLKS AND
FIND OUT THAT WHAT WHAT WHAT
THEY'RE AFRAID OF AND WHAT HAS
BEEN HAPPENING SO SPECIFICALLY
LIKE PUTTING OUT A CALL TO THE
COMMUNITY THAT IF YOU'VE
EXPERIENCED JUST LIKE I'VE HELD
THEM IN LIBRARIES IN THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY A GATHERING
WHERE WE TRY TO CONNECT WITH
YEAH.
COMMUNITY GROUPS I GUESS I JUST
WONDER ABOUT ANONYMITY IF FOLKS
ARE WORRIED ABOUT DISCLOSING OR
IF THEY'RE IN SITUATIONS RIGHT
NOW THEY'RE BUT AS WITH THE
UNDOCUMENTED COMMUNITY IN
GENERAL, WE DON'T POST SIGNS
AND WE DON'T SET UP NOTICES.
WE ASK COMMUNITY GROUP MEMBERS
TO CHAT AMONG THEMSELVES AND
NORMALLY OR IN MY EXPERIENCE
THERE ARE SOME SAFE SPACES THAT
THE COMMUNITY IDENTIFIES.
SO FOR INSTANCE, THERE A COUPLE
THOSE MEETING ROOMS IN A
TRAILER COMMUNITY RIGHT OFF A
MICHIGAN AVENUE MENU.
YEAH, YEAH.
LOCATIONS LIKE THAT.
BUT AND ASK THE COMMUNITY TO
TELL US I MEAN OVER MOBILE.
YEAH.
YOU KNOW I THINK THAT I WANT TO
STEP BACK FOR A SECOND.
THIS ISSUE CAN BE HIGHLY
POLITICIZED AND I DO WANT TO
SAY THAT DESPITE ITS ORIGINS
IT'S PART OF INDIAN CULTURE AND
HERITAGE AND IT CROSSES
RELIGIONS.
I WANT TO SAY THAT I ALSO AGREE
WITH LIN THAT LIKE A LOT
OF THESE PEOPLE COULD BE IN
VERY SENSITIVE POSITIONS AND
NOT WANT TO COME OUT.
BUT I THINK WHAT WOULD BE
BENEFICIAL FOR US AND WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT THIS FOR A WHILE
IS JUST HAVING AN OPEN FORUM AT
SOME POINT AS THE HRC.
HAVE YOU EXPERIENCED
DISCRIMINATION?
HOW DO YOU FILE A REPORT SORT
OF CALLING OUT CARSE BECAUSE
THEN THAT COULD ALSO HELP US
GET PEOPLE WHO MIGHT TALK ABOUT
COLORISM OR OTHER FORMS
OF DISCRIMINATION.
MIGHT PHILIDOR ANCESTRY COULD
HAVE ANY FORM OF WORK IF YEAH
IF FOLKS ARE UNCOMFORTABLE IN
ANY KIND OF GROUP SETTING
THAT'S YOU KNOW OF COURSE I'M
HONORED THAT I HAVE FOUND THAT
OFTENTIMES IN THE DETAILS AND
SOMETHING TRIGGERS A CHANGE IN
THE COMMUNITY AND IF WE ARE TO
IDENTIFY OTHER WAYS IN WHICH WE
MIGHT BE HELPFUL LIKE THAT IS
NOW THE IDEA EMERGED JUST
TALKING WITH PEOPLE ABOUT WHAT
WAS DIFFICULT IN THEIR LIVES
AND TRYING TO COME UP WITH A
UNIVERSAL THAT NOT ISOLATE ONE
GROUP FROM THE OTHER SOLUTION
RIGHT.
WHICH I THINK OUR NEW
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE AND
IDS CARRIES NOW NICELY TO A
CLOSE CIRCLE BECAUSE NOW WE'RE
JUST TALKING ABOUT GOVERNMENT
ISSUED IDS RIGHT
.
SO WHATEVER I DON'T MEAN TO
SLOW A PROCESS OR CAUSE ANYONE
DISCOMFORT THAT'S I JUST WANT
TO BE AVAILABLE IF PEOPLE WANT
TO TALK ABOUT WHAT'S GOING ON
SO THAT WE MIGHT SEE AN
OPPORTUNITY AND BEING TOLD IT'S
OK IN TERMS OF THE PROCESS THAT
YOU HAVE OUTLINED, I'M YEAH.
YEAH.
I DON'T WANT SLOW ANYTHING.
I THINK WE WILL BE FOCUSED ON A
RESOLUTION AND THEN AS YOUR
WORK AS A COMMITTEE AND I LIKE
OH I'M SORRY I WITH A MINE AND
LINDERO AND I FORGET MY ROLE
NOW NOW THAT I'M A CNN LIAISON
WE ARE REALLY HERE TO HELP TURN
OUR WORK KIND OF IN A POLICY
RIGHT IN TERMS OF HOW THIS MAY
INFORM THIS COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT OR OUTREACH WORK.
I THINK THAT'S A DISCUSSION YOU
GUYS SHOULD ALL HAVE.
YEAH.
AND I ALSO THINK IT SHOULD BE
GUIDED BY THE PEOPLE MOST
IMPACTED SO YOU KNOW, BRINGING
SOME FOLKS INTO INTO THESE
CONVERSATIONS WHEN YOU THINK
ABOUT DOING A WORK FOR A
LISTENING SESSION WHO'VE BEEN
AFFECTED, THIS IS AN IDEA IT'S
RELATIVELY EASY TO PUT THEM
INTO THE PROTECTED CLASS LIST.
IT'S HARDER TO MAKE IT
MEANINGFUL.
YEAH.
AND I WANT IT TO BE YEAH.
SO HI.
YEAH.
THANK YOU FOR EVERYONE WHO
SO HI.
SPOKE TODAY IS VERY MOVING AND
THANK YOU FOR EVERYONE WHO
FOR YOUR WORK ON THIS ASIA UM
SPOKE TODAY IS VERY MOVING AND
TWO QUESTIONS.
FOR YOUR WORK ON THIS ASIA UM
THE FIRST ONE I THINK PERTAINS
TWO QUESTIONS.
TO HOW DO WE HOW DO WE GET
THE FIRST ONE I THINK PERTAINS
MEANINGFUL AND SORRY.
TO HOW DO WE HOW DO WE GET
SO I WAS CURIOUS ABOUT THE
MEANINGFUL AND SORRY.
DEFINITION THAT YOU CAME UP
SO I WAS CURIOUS ABOUT THE
WITH AND ONE THING THAT I
DEFINITION THAT YOU CAME UP
NOTICE IS THAT IT DOESN'T LIKE
WITH AND ONE THING THAT I
IT SOUNDS FROM THIS
NOTICE IS THAT IT DOESN'T LIKE
CONVERSATION THAT THIS IS LIKE
IT SOUNDS FROM THIS
SPECIFIC TO SOUTH ASIA AND SO
CONVERSATION THAT THIS IS LIKE
FORTH BUT IT'S NOT MENTIONED
SPECIFIC TO SOUTH ASIA AND SO
HERE.
FORTH BUT IT'S NOT MENTIONED
WAS THAT INTENTIONAL TALKATIVE
HERE.
THAT HE IS GOING TO LIKE ARE WE
WAS THAT INTENTIONAL TALKATIVE
SURE THIS DEFINITION IS GOING
THAT HE IS GOING TO LIKE ARE WE
TO TARGET WHAT WE THINK IT'S
SURE THIS DEFINITION IS GOING
GOING TO TARGET?
TO TARGET WHAT WE THINK IT'S
YEAH, THANK YOU.
GOING TO TARGET?
THANK YOU FOR THAT QUESTION.
YEAH, THANK YOU.
SO LET ME READ THE DEFINITION
THANK YOU FOR THAT QUESTION.
OUT LOUD THAT LEGAL HELP TO
SO LET ME READ THE DEFINITION
COME UP WITH AND IT HAS BEEN
OUT LOUD THAT LEGAL HELP TO
SHARED WITH MEMBERS OF THE
COME UP WITH AND IT HAS BEEN
GROUP CAST.
SHARED WITH MEMBERS OF THE
SO THIS WILL BE ADDED TO THE
GROUP CAST.
NDA ON ITS OWN.
SO THIS WILL BE ADDED TO THE
CAS IS A SYSTEM OF RIGID SOCIAL
NDA ON ITS OWN.
STRATIFICATION CHARACTER IS BY
CAS IS A SYSTEM OF RIGID SOCIAL
HEREDITARY STATUS, RACE OR
STRATIFICATION CHARACTER IS BY
ANCESTRY THAT RESTRICTS SOCIAL
HEREDITARY STATUS, RACE OR
STATUS AND CREATES SOCIAL
ANCESTRY THAT RESTRICTS SOCIAL
BARRIERS INCLUDING RESTRICTING
STATUS AND CREATES SOCIAL
INDIVIDUALS AS OCCUPATIONS,
BARRIERS INCLUDING RESTRICTING
SOCIAL INTERACTIONS AND OTHER
INDIVIDUALS AS OCCUPATIONS,
PRIVILEGES.
SOCIAL INTERACTIONS AND OTHER
I'M NOT SAYING THAT'S THE MOST
PRIVILEGES.
PERFECT DEFINITION.
I'M NOT SAYING THAT'S THE MOST
I THINK THAT LIKE IF WE DON'T
PERFECT DEFINITION.
WANT TO HAVE A CONVERSATION
I THINK THAT LIKE IF WE DON'T
ABOUT HOW CAN WE IMPROVE
WANT TO HAVE A CONVERSATION
ESPECIALLY WITH GROUPS LIKE
ABOUT HOW CAN WE IMPROVE
THIS FORMING THE PROCESS?
ESPECIALLY WITH GROUPS LIKE
I THINK THAT'S A GOOD IDEA.
THIS FORMING THE PROCESS?
I THINK WE WANTED TO
I THINK THAT'S A GOOD IDEA.
INTENTIONALLY LEAVE IT OPEN
I THINK WE WANTED TO
BECAUSE LIKE YES, IT MAY
INTENTIONALLY LEAVE IT OPEN
MANIFEST IN SOUTH ASIAN
BECAUSE LIKE YES, IT MAY
COUNTRIES BUT IT MAY MANIFEST
MANIFEST IN SOUTH ASIAN
IN OTHER COUNTRIES.
COUNTRIES BUT IT MAY MANIFEST
RIGHT.
IN OTHER COUNTRIES.
AND WE ALSO DON'T WANT TO PUT
RIGHT.
SPECIFIC I REMEMBER THINKING
AND WE ALSO DON'T WANT TO PUT
ABOUT THIS IF WE PUT SOUTH
SPECIFIC I REMEMBER THINKING
ASIANS SPECIFICALLY I DON'T
ABOUT THIS IF WE PUT SOUTH
WANT TO LIMIT SOMEONE ELSE OR
ASIANS SPECIFICALLY I DON'T
SOMEONE INTERPRETING THAT AS I
WANT TO LIMIT SOMEONE ELSE OR
DO.
SOMEONE INTERPRETING THAT AS I
I HAVE TO BE AN IMMIGRANT FROM
DO.
THERE.
I HAVE TO BE AN IMMIGRANT FROM
I YOU KNOW, I'M SECOND
THERE.
GENERATION HERE.
I YOU KNOW, I'M SECOND
IT'S AFFECTING ME.
GENERATION HERE.
THAT WAS MY THINKING OF IT AND
IT'S AFFECTING ME.
LET ME ALSO READ SEATTLE'S CAN
THAT WAS MY THINKING OF IT AND
I READ SEATTLE'S WHAT THEY
LET ME ALSO READ SEATTLE'S CAN
RECENTLY AS A SYSTEM OF RIGID
I READ SEATTLE'S WHAT THEY
SOCIAL STRATIFICATION
RECENTLY AS A SYSTEM OF RIGID
CHARACTERIZED BY HEREDITARY
SOCIAL STRATIFICATION
STATUS AND DOGMA AND SOCIAL
CHARACTERIZED BY HEREDITARY
BARRIERS SANCTIONED BY CUSTOM
STATUS AND DOGMA AND SOCIAL
LAW OR RELIGION
.
YEAH WE I MEAN WE HAVE ROOM TO
THINK ABOUT BOTH AND I YEAH
THERE WAS THERE WAS A
CONVERSATION ABOUT NOT
INCLUDING RELIGION AND OURS BUT
YEAH I THINK JUST MAKING SURE
THAT NO ONE CAN SAY OH I WASN'T
DISCRIMINATING ABOUT CASTE
BECAUSE I DON'T THINK ABOUT
CASTE IN THIS WAY ACCORDING TO
THIS DEFINITION OR DO YOU KNOW
WHAT I'M SAYING LIKE NO I KNOW
YEAH OK I THINK YOU POINTED OUT
SOMETHING IMPORTANT.
I THINK THAT WHAT WE HAVE HERE
COULD BE IMPROVED.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT IT WITH
THE ATTORNEYS WITH LIN AS WELL
AND I DO THINK AS THE GENTLEMAN
POINTED OUT WITH COLORISM AND
ANTI BLACKNESS AT ITS ORIGIN, I
THINK IT SHOULD BE ADDED IN
UNDER RACE.
ARE YOU SAYING THAT SHOULD BE
ADDED IN UNDER THE DEFINITION
TO THE DETRIMENT TO THE
DEFINITION OF RACE?
OF COURSE NOT NOT RACE.
GOT IT.
GOT NOT RACE.
LET'S TALK ABOUT IT.
ANY OTHER SORRY.
GO AHEAD.
THE OTHER PIECE THAT I'M
THINKING ABOUT IS ALSO YOU
KNOW, AS YOU HIGHLIGHTED WHEN
YOU'RE HAVING THESE DIFFICULT
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT INTRA GROUP
DISCRIMINATION AND IN MY
EXPERIENCE LIKE LIKE IN HIGH
SCHOOL WE LEARNED A LOT ABOUT
THE CASTE SYSTEM IN MY HISTORY
CLASS AND I THINK THAT'S
BECAUSE AMERICANS LIKE TO THINK
ABOUT OTHER CULTURES
DISCRIMINATING AND COMING UP
WITH A DISCRIMINATORY SYSTEM SO
THAT WE DON'T FEEL AS BAD ABOUT
ALL OF THE INJUSTICES THAT
WE'VE PERPETUATED THROUGHOUT
THE YEARS.
RIGHT.
AND SO WHEN WE HAVE THESE
CONVER DIFFICULT CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT INTRA GROUP
DISCRIMINATION IN MIXED COMPANY
AS THEY SAY, HOW DO WE HAVE
THOSE CONVERSATIONS IN A WAY
THAT DOESN'T DEMONIZE MEMBERS
OF OUR COMMUNITY OR MAKE IT
SEEM THAT ASIANS ARE UNIQUELY
DISCRIMINATORY OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT?
SO JUST BEING REALLY MINDFUL AS
WE PURSUE THIS VERY WORTHY I
THINK ADDITION TO OUR AND HOW
DO WE HAVE THOSE CONVERSATIONS
IN MIXED COMPANY IN A WAY THAT
IS YOU KNOW, FULFILLING OUR
GOALS OF EQUALITY.
YEAH, YEAH.
I THINK THAT'S A REALLY GOOD
POINT.
I MEAN THIS WAS REALLY
CRYSTALLIZED BY COLONIALISM AND
INDIA HAVE HAD THE SECOND
LARGEST POPULATION FOR THE
SLAVE TRADE FOR BLACKS.
SO THERE ARE A PART OF A LOT
OF THE THE CASTEISM THAT HAS
BEEN SEEN IN OTHER SOUTH ASIAN
COUNTRIES ARE BECAUSE THERE ARE
SO MANY INDIANS WHO ARE SHIPPED
AS SLAVES TO WORK LIKE COLONIAL
BRITISH SUGAR CANE PLANTATIONS
AND WHATNOT.
BUT NOW THOSE ARE IMPORTANT
THINGS.
SO THANK YOU.
SO I THINK NEXT LET'S DO LIKE A
SUBCOMMITTEE AND START TALKING
MORE OFFLINE ABOUT HOW WE CAN
WE CAN REALLY MAKE SURE THIS
ESTERO YEAH, EXCELLENT.
NOT TRY TO LOCK YOU GUYS OFF
FROM THIS CONVERSATION.
DO YOU THINK IT'D BE VALUABLE
TO HAVE PEOPLE EXPRESS THEIR
INTEREST IN HAVING FORMING A
WORKGROUP OF SOME SORT?
TALK ABOUT OTHER PEOPLE WHO
WOULD ESPECIALLY LIKE TO BE ON
THIS GROUP?
OH, DEFINITELY.
DEFINITELY THEY'RE INTERESTED
IN FRANKLIN NOW IS THIS ARE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
COMMITTEE MEETING OR CITY
COUNCIL SUBCOMMITTEE WHICH IS
NOT A MEMBER?
WELL, I DIDN'T KNOW IF NOT MORE
THAN FOUR PEOPLE SO WE'VE GOT
FOUR PEOPLE NOW IMMEDIATELY
IT'S A IT'S A HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION MEETING BECAUSE THEN
IT HAS TO BE LESS THAN FIVE
BECAUSE THE RESOLUTION HAS TO
COME FROM THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION, RIGHT?
NO, I KNOW I JUST MET IT
DOESN'T HAVE A REGIONAL WE CAN
BUT IT'S QUIET.
IT CAN.
BUT WE KNEW THAT IT WOULD BE
STRONGER IF WE SHARED IT WITH
ALL OF YOU TONIGHT AND GOT YOUR
INPUT AND WE AND IT MIGHT BE
USEFUL TO HAVE WE'VE GOT YOUR
YOUR ADDRESSES RIGHT.
YOUR EMAIL ADDRESSES.
YES.
YEAH, I'VE BEEN IN TOUCH WITH
THEM BUT BUT NOW THAT'S WHAT I
WAS ASKING AND WE SPOKE
OF CONCERN ABOUT WHERE FOR
BECAUSE OF OPEN MEETINGS ACT
AND LIMITING LOWER IN TERMS
OF HAVING COMMUNITY MEMBERS IN
AT THIS PHASE THAT YOU KNOW,
EARLIER I WAS ASKING THE SAME
SORT OF QUESTION CAN WE HAVE A
GROUP WITH FOLKS THAT ARE
AFFECTED AND YEAH, I MEAN I'VE
MAYBE I CONFUSED AND I THOUGHT
YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT THE
LISTENING SESSIONS.
OH, OK.
I COULD FEEL THIS THIS IS WHAT
I MEAN WHEN I SAY LISTENING
SESSION BECAUSE YOU WILL DO
MOST OF THE LISTENING.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
OK GREAT LET'S LET'S TALK ABOUT
IT OK GREAT GOOD.
THANKS ALL OF YOU.
THANK YOU AGAIN FOR COMING.
WELL THANK YOU AND WE'LL BE IN
TOUCH.
YES WE WERE OK LET US GO TO THE
OTHER PART OF OUR AGENDA THEN
LESLIE.
YES.
WOULD IT BE POSSIBLE TO ADJUST
THE AGENDA FOR ME TO GO NEXT
BECAUSE MY DAUGHTER'S HAVING A
MELTDOWN AT HOME APPARENTLY.
OK, WHAT CAN I MOTION FOR THAT?
YES, I ALSO JUST WANT TO DO
LIKE A QUICK CLARIFICATION
OF WHO'S WORKING ON THE CAST.
I JUST MOVED IN AND PROCESS
JUST LIKE NAMES I WASN'T SURE
BRANDON TO AND SARAH AND SARAH
ANOTHER PERSON I JUST
REMEMBERED COUNCIL MEMBERS.
OK, SO WE DO HAVE ROOM FOR ONE
OTHER PERSON IF THERE'S
SOMEBODY WHO WANTS TO DO IT OR
MAYBE I'LL DO IT EVERYONE
ELSE'S.
THANK YOU.
OK WELL THEN OK
YES I SUPPOSE
WE CAN DO THAT.
WE NEED TO HAVE THANK YOU SARAH
GO NEXT I SAID OK YEAH OK OK I
APPRECIATE EVERYONE'S
FLEXIBILITY SO I JUST NEED TO
GIVE A QUICK UPDATE ABOUT OUR
EFFORTS TO IDENTIFY LGBTQ
AFFIRMING LOCAL LEGISLATION
THAT WE COULD CONSIDER IN ANN
ARBOR.
IT HAS BEEN TRICKY SO I WAS
ABLE
TO TALK TO THE POLICY
DIRECTOR MS ZANOTTI.
EQUALITY MICHIGAN WHO EVERYONE
KIND OF POINTED TO AS LIKE THE
ORGANIZATION WORKING ON LGBTQ
RIGHTS IN MICHIGAN.
UNFORTUNATELY OR FORTUNATELY I
DON'T KNOW.
BUT IT SEEMS LIKE ALL OF THE
PLAYERS IN THIS FIELD ARE VERY
FOCUSED ON STATE LEVEL
LEGISLATION AND ALL OF THEIR
EXPERTIZE AROUND ADVOCACY AND
WHAT ARE THE PRIORITIES AND ALL
THIS IS REALLY FOCUSED ON STATE
LEVEL.
SO THE THE KIND OF HAD SOME
IDEAS WHICH I SHARED VIA EMAIL
THAT CAN RECAP QUICKLY TODAY
BUT WASN'T SUPER CLEAR.
SO I THINK WE ARE GOING TO HAVE
TO INVESTIGATE AND PAY OUR OWN
WAY A LITTLE BIT IN
CONSULTATION WITH COMMUNITY IF
WE WANT TO MOVE FORWARD AND DO
SOMETHING ACTIONABLE AROUND
THIS.
AND I HEARD BACK FROM HER TODAY
THAT YEAH, THERE ISN'T REALLY A
POINT PERSON WHO DOES LOCAL
ORDINANCE WORK.
SO ONE THING SHE MENTIONED THAT
COULD POTENTIALLY LOW HANGING
FRUIT IS THAT WE WERE DINGED IN
THE EQUALITY INDEX LAST TIME IT
WAS RUN BECAUSE THE CITY DOES
NOT OFFER TRANS AFFIRMING
HEALTH CARE TO CITY EMPLOYEES.
SO I'M NOT SURE WHO WOULD WE
FOLLOW UP WITH ABOUT THAT BUT
THAT COULD BE ONE TANGIBLE WAY
FOR TRANS FOLKS WHO ARE CITY
EMPLOYEES AT LEAST TO HAVE
BETTER ACCESS TO GENDER
AFFIRMING CARE.
SOME OTHER IDEAS THAT CAME UP
THERE WAS THAT RECENT INCIDENT
WITH HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT WHO
WAS SOUNDED LIKE DENIED ACCESS
TO THE BATHROOM THAT
CORRESPONDS TO THEIR GENDER AND
SO THINKING ABOUT LOOKING AT
SOME AFFIRMING BATHROOM
LEGISLATION AGAIN I WAS HAVING
TROUBLE IDENTIFYING LOCAL
ORDINANCE EXAMPLES BUT SOME
IDEAS THAT I HEARD FROM
BRANDON.
I TALKED TO A COUPLE OF PEOPLE
AND I TALKED TO A COUPLE
ADDIONAL PEOPLE WAS LIKE AN
ORDINANCE THAT SAYS ANY SINGLE
STORE BATHROOM HAS TO BE GENDER
NEUTRAL OR GENDER INCLUSIVE
WHICH SEEMS AGAIN LIKE KIND
OF A RELATIVELY LOW HANGING
PROPOSITION.
ANOTHER LEGISLATION IDEA THAT I
HEARD WAS IF YOU HAVE A NEW
BUILD AND THERE EVERY NEW
BUILDING HAS TO HAVE A SINGLE
STALL BATHROOM THAT IS GENDER
INCLUSIVE.
SO AGAIN, THOSE WERE SORT
OF THE EASIER PROPOSITIONS THAT
DON'T FORCE ANYBODY TO RETROFIT
THEIR EXISTING BATHROOMS INTO
SINGLE STALL OR GENDER
INCLUSIVE BATHROOMS.
BUT THOSE COULD BE OPTIONS TO
THINK ABOUT LOOKING.
THERE WAS ALSO SOME INTEREST
WHEN I EMAILED THE COMMISSION
ABOUT SANCTUARY LAWS.
THOSE ARE LAWS THAT HAVE BEEN
PROPOSED AT THE STATE LEVEL IN
CERTAIN STATES THAT SAY THAT IF
YOU COME HERE FOR REPRODUCTIVE
HEALTH CARE OR GENDER AFFIRMING
HEALTH CARE, EVEN IF THOSE
TYPES OF HEALTH CARE ARE
ILLEGAL IN YOUR STATE OF ORIGIN
,WE WILL NOT ASSIST WITH ANY
PROSECUTION OF YOU FOR COMING
HERE TO TO ENGAGE IN THOSE
TYPES OF HEALTH CARE AND
THEY'RE EXPLICITLY PROTECT.
SO I AM NOT SURE IF ANYBODY CAN
TALK TO THE CITY ATTORNEY TO
LOOK INTO IT LIKE IS NOT EVEN
LEGALLY SOMETHING THAT WE COULD
CONSIDER PASSING AT THE LOCAL
LEVEL LIKE DOES IT EVEN MAKE
SENSE?
I'M NOT SURE KIND OF HOW THAT
WORKS.
I KNOW THAT SOME COUNTIES AND
LOCAL CITIES HAVE DECLARED
THEMSELVES SANCTUARY CITIES IN
TERMS OF IMMIGRATION.
SO POSSIBLY THIS COULD BE
SOMETHING THAT WE COULD LOOK
INTO.
NOT SURE HOW MUCH LEGAL
PROTECTION IT ACTUALLY AFFORDS
FOLKS WHO COME HERE FOR THOSE
TYPES OF CARE BUT MAYBE IT AT
LEAST SENDS SOME KIND
OF SYMBOLIC MESSAGE.
THERE WERE SOME OTHER IDEAS
LIKE AROUND COULD WE COMPEL
EMPLOYERS OF A CERTAIN SIZE TO
OFFER TRANS INCLUSIVE HEALTH
CARE TO THEIR EMPLOYEES?
SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT
CERTAINLY ARE THERE WAYS TO
MAKE IT SO INSURANCE COMPANIES
CAN'T PUT UP BARRIERS LIKE
PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FOR GENDER
AFFIRMING HEALTH CARE OR EVEN
HIV TREATMENT?
THE OTHER PIECES WERE
POTENTIALLY TALKING TO THE
LIBRARY BOARD AND COLLABORATING
AROUND KIND OF LIKE BOOK BANS
AND MAYBE AFFIRMATIVE
LEGISLATION THAT PROTECTS
AGAINST THOSE KINDS OF BANS.
AGAIN, I'M NOT SURE I DON'T
KNOW THAT IN OUR BOOK IS
ENACTING ANY BANS.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH IT
ACTUALLY HELPS.
IT WOULD BE MORE OF A SYMBOLIC
THING AND THEN THE OTHER ISSUES
THAT CAME UP WERE THINGS THAT
WEREN'T LGBTQ SPECIFIC BUT MAY
DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECT LGBTQ
PEOPLE SUCH LOOKING AGAIN AT
SEX WORK DECRIMINALIZATION
WHICH I KNOW CAME IN THE PAST
AS A SOMETHING FOR A CITY
COUNCIL TO CONSIDER WHICH WAS
NOT VOTED ON BUT THAT WAS
ANOTHER IN THE LISTENING
SESSIONS THAT WE DID WITH FOLKS
THAT WAS ANOTHER THING THAT
CAME UP TO CONSIDER.
SO I'LL PAUSE THERE AND TAKE
YOUR QUESTIONS REGARDING THE
LIBRARY BOARD.
THERE WOULD BE NO NEED FOR ANY
SORT OF LEGISLATION IN REGARDS
TO BOOK BANNING OR ANYTHING IN
TERMS OF ASSOCIATED PROGRESSIVE
PROGRAMING IN THAT VEIN THERE
ARE ALSO IN TERMS OF THE
DISCUSSION BOOK BANNING IN
GENERAL THERE ARE PROACTIVE
SYSTEMS IN CARE IN PLACE IN
CASE THAT WERE TO SORT OF REACH
THE STATE OR NATIONAL MEDIA
DISCUSSION.
BUT CURRENTLY THEY'RE IS NO
SORT OF DISCUSSION AT LOCAL
LEVEL THAT WE'RE AWARE OF .
BUT SHOULD THERE BE THERE ARE
PREVENTATIVE MEASURES IN PLACE
TO SORT OF YOU HELP AGAIN QUASH
ANY OF THAT DISCUSSION?
I'M MORE THAN HAPPY TO FOLLOW
UP OFFLINE OR CONNECT WITH THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OR EVEN THE
REST OF THE BOARD BUT KNOW THAT
AT LEAST FOR NOW THAT SHOULD BE
A NON-ISSUE.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT SOUNDS LIKE A LOW PRIORITY
FOR US AND ABSOLUTELY BUT THE
LIBRARY DOES HOST A REALLY
AMAZING PROGRAM AND HAS FOR A
COUPLE OF YEARS NOW AND HELPING
FOLKS WITH NAMES, CHANGING
NAMES LEGALLY AND KIND
OF NAVIGATING THE PROCESS AND
UPDATING YOUR YOUR IDS AND
THAT'S WITH AN LGBTQ LAW CLINIC
I THINK AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
YEAH, THERE'S REGULARLY TRANS
AND TRANS AFFIRMATIVE
PROGRAMING AS WELL IN
CONJUNCTION WITH THAT OUT THERE
CALLED THE OUTLAW'S YES YOU CAN
GET HEALTH BENEFIT INFORMATION
.
SO EVERY YEAR I HAVE TO GO
THROUGH AND I HAVE TO REVIEW
HEALTH CARE PLANS AND MOST
HEALTH CARE PLANS.
I DO IT FOR THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT.
BUT MOST HEALTH CARE PLANS NOW
HAVE GENDER FIRMING SURGERY IS
PART OF THEIR PLANS SO I'M NOT
SURE WHAT CITY HAS OR WHAT THEY
OFFER NOW CURRENTLY.
BUT ANY H.R. DEPARTMENT YOU
COULD GO TO ANY H.R. DEPARTMENT
AT ANY BUSINESS AND TALK TO
WHOEVER HANDLES THEIR BENEFITS
TO HAVE THEM GO IN AND LOOK AT
WHETHER GENDER AFFIRMING
SURGERY OR CARE IS INCLUDED IN
THE BENEFITS PACKAGE AND THEN
IF IT'S NOT, THERE ARE HUNDREDS
OF INSURANCE PACKAGES OUT THERE
THAT OFFER THOSE SERVICES.
I MEAN I COULD PROBABLY WRITE
OFF TWELVE RIGHT NOW THAT OFFER
THAT BECAUSE WE OFFER THEM IN
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO OUR
EMPLOYEES AT THE VA.
SO THERE THEY ARE OUT THERE AND
THEY'RE AVAILABLE NOW WHETHER
OR NOT COMPA COULD AFFORD THOSE
HEALTH BENEFIT PREMIUMS IS A
DIFFERENT STORY.
SO AND I THINK SOMETIMES THAT'S
WHAT IT BOILS DOWN TO.
OK, I HAVE SEEN STUDIES THAT
HAVE LOOKED AT THIS AND BECAUSE
THERE ARE RELATIVELY FEW
TRANSGENDER PEOPLE THAT THE
TYPICALLY PREMIUMS WOULD RAISE
BY LESS THAN A DOLLAR PER
PERSON IN ORDER TO COVER THESE
TYPES OF CARE.
SO IT REALLY IS COST EFFECTIVE.
YEAH, JUST TO HAVE EVEN SAY
LOOK, I JUST HAPPEN TO SPEAK TO
A SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER JUST
TODAY ASSURED ME THAT THERE WAS
NO EFFORT SHE WAS AWARE OF AT
THE SCHOOL'S COMPTROLLER BOTH
SO THAT'S REASSURING.
YES.
ALREADY CROSSED OFF THE LIST
HERE.
SO I THINK ONE THING I WANT TO
ADD KIND OF GOING BACK TO THE
PREVIOUS POINTS ABOUT COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT, EVERYTHING, I THINK
THAT WOULD BE SOMETHING THAT'S
GOOD RIGHT NOW TO SEE IF WE CAN
GET JUST PEOPLE THAT ARE
WILLING TO SHARE THEIR
EXPERIENCE, OUR LOCAL MEMBERS
TO KIND OF SEE LIKE WHAT IS
THEIR EXPERIENCE.
SO IT SEEMS LIKE RIGHT NOW
THERE'S A TOP DOWN APPROACH TO
WHAT'S BEEN HAPPENING IN TERMS
OF POLICY SYSTEMS AND
EVERYTHING.
SO I THINK I MEAN I'M STILL
VERY AND EVERYTHING BUT IF
THERE'S A WAY OR MECHANISMS OR
ORGANIZATIONS THAT PRIMARILY
WORK WITH LGBTQ PLUS
POPULATION, IF WE CAN SEE IF WE
CAN JUST LIKE CHAT WITH THEM
AND KIND OF GET THEIR
EXPERIENCES TO AGAIN KIND
OF GOING INTO THEIR OWN DOMAIN,
THEY CAN SET IT UP AND THEN
JUST INVITE SOON SO THAT THEY
FEEL SAFE IN THOSE ENVIRONMENTS
.
BUT I THINK THAT CAN ALSO SEE
LIKE THINGS THAT IMPACT JUST
LIKE PEOPLE IN GENERAL WHETHER
IT IS WITHIN OR OUTSIDE
OF THEIR IDENTITY AS WELL.
SO I THINK THAT CAN ALSO BE A
POTENTIAL NEXT STEP TO KIND
OF SAY THAT WE TRY TO DO OUR
RESEARCH AND EVERYTHING AND NOW
WE'RE HOPING TO SEE FROM LIKE
ON THE GROUND LEVEL EVERY DAY
LIVED EXPERIENCE TOO.
SO I GUESS THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT WE CAN WORK ON AND I'M
HAPPY TO FOLLOW UP WITH YOU
WITH THAT TOO.
I WONDER IF WE CAN KIND OF COME
FROM BOTH ANGLES.
SO ONE THING I THINK CAN BE
EFFECTIVE IS GOING INTO
MEETINGS WITH COMMUNITY BOTH
KIND OF LISTENING ELICITING
OPEN ENDED WHAT ARE YOUR IDEAS,
YOUR PRIORITIES BUT ALSO SAYING
LIKE OK AND WE TALK TO THE
ATTORNEY AND WE HEAR ARE THINGS
THAT ARE LIKE SEEM REALLY
ACTIONABLE.
HOW WOULD YOU PRIORITIZE
THIS
LIST OF LIKE ACTUALLY YOU KNOW,
LEGALLY POSSIBLE OPTIONS AND SO
YOU'RE BOTH GENERATING NEW
IDEAS BUT ALSO LIKE BECAUSE
SOMETIMES IT'S HARD TO EVEN
KNOW WHAT THE UNIVERSE
OF OPTIONS IS.
SO KIND OF DOING SOME OF THAT
LEGWORK TO BRING PREPARED TO
THE MEETING ALSO I THINK COMING
OUT FROM BOTH ANGLES COULD BE
REALLY HELPFUL.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF MAYBE AT
THIS POINT WE'VE HAD ENOUGH
MEETINGS WITH FOLKS OUTSIDE.
MAYBE IT'S TIME FOR ME OR
SOMEONE ELSE TO MEET WITH THE
CITY ATTORNEY AND TALK TO THEM
ABOUT FROM A LOCAL ORDINANCE
PERSPECTIVE WHAT IS ACTUALLY
POSSIBLE TO ACHIEVE THE
APPROPRIATE PERSON TO TALK TO
OR OK, SO I'M SORRY.
I WAS I WAS JUST THINKING BACK
TO WHEN I WAS ON THE
NUTRITION'S BOARD AND HOW
THINGS WAS IN THE EARLY 2000S
THERE WAS AN ACTUAL SURVEY IN
THE COUNTY OF LGBTQ EXPERIENCE
WITH YOUTH AND IT WAS ON TEENS
ACTUALLY TOOK THAT REPORT AND
THEN PUT IT INTO A PERFORMANCE
TO REPORT IT BACK TO CORE
MEMBERS AND THE GROUP WAS
CALLED GUERRILLA'S.
I LOOKED AT IF THERE'S ANY ROOM
OR TIME MAYBE WE CAN REACH BACK
TO NEUTRAL ZONE AND SEE IF WE
CAN GET A HAND A HANDLE ON THAT
REPORT.
AND I KNOW THERE ARE YOUTH
WHO'D BE REALLY RELIEVED TO
HEAR THAT THE COMMISSION IS
WORKING ON THIS IF ONLY BECAUSE
I HEAR FROM A NUMBER OF PARENTS
OF TEENAGERS HERE WHO ARE
EITHER TRANSITIONING,
CONSIDERING TRANSITIONING OR IN
THE COMMUNITY IN OTHER WAYS AND
WHO ARE WATCHING THE POLITICAL
LANDSCAPE NATIONALLY.
I THEY THEY THEY TRACK THE VETO
IN KENTUCKY RIGHT.
I MEAN THE LEGISLATURE EVEN
THOUGH THE GOVERNOR TRIED TO
PROTECT TRANS RIGHTS THERE SO I
TO CALL IT ACCESS TO ESSENTIAL
MEDICAL CARE.
RIGHT.
BUT YEAH, I THAT'S JUST A
SUGGESTION BEFORE WE APPROACH
THE ATTORNEY BECAUSE I KNOW THE
OTHER I MEAN YOUNG TEENS ARE
REALLY, REALLY ANXIOUS ABOUT
THIS RIGHT NOW.
YES.
AND WE'VE WORKED WITH THE
NEUTRAL ZONE BEFORE AND THEY
WERE FABULOUS.
IT WOULD BE VERY GOOD PLACE TO
GO.
YEAH.
WOULD YOU BE QUIET OR WOULD YOU
BE ABLE TO REACH OUT TO THEM OR
AT LEAST MAKE AN INTRODUCTION
IF YOU'D LIKE ME TO REACH OUT
TO THE DIRECTOR AND I WENT TO
WE ARE IN MSW PROGRAM TOGETHER
BEFORE WE HAD OUR BABY.
SO YEAH, WE'RE WE'RE NEVER
LETTING EACH OTHER GO DO THAT I
CAN DO HERE OK, OK SO IT SOUNDS
LIKE NEXT STEPS LYNN IS GOING
TO REACH OUT TO NEUTRAL ZONE
AND SOMEONE PUT ME IN TOUCH
WITH THE CITY ATTORNEY OR YEAH
I CAN DO THAT.
OK SO DO YOU WANT TO EMAIL ME
AND THEN WILL SO THAT I HAVE
SOMETHING ON MY FOREHEAD AND ON
AND SURE.
YEAH THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
OK OK AND THEN YEAH.
NOT TO PUT YOU ON THE SPOT
BRANDON BUT DO YOU WANT TO
START THINKING ABOUT MAYBE
PARTNERS LIKE SPECTRUM CENTER
OR I DON'T KNOW LIKE JUST FOLKS
THAT WE PUT A NEUTRAL ZONE
OZONE HOUSE WHATEVER THAT WE
COULD TAP AND MAYBE TO START
THINKING ABOUT ORGANIZING A
LISTENING SESSION TO KIND
OF GET COMMUNITY PRIORITIES AND
GET CLARITY AROUND THAT.
YEAH, I CAN TRY TO MAKE A
SPREADSHEET OR SOMETHING LIKE
UNIVERSITY AND UNIVERSITY
PLACES SOME CONNECTIONS THAT I
HAVE.
SO YEAH I ALSO THANK FOR
SPEARHEADING YEAH I KNOW IT'S
BEEN A LOT OF WORK ON THE FRONT
END SO THANK FOR YOUR BRINGING
THIS TO LIGHT OF COURSE.
YEAH THANK YOU EVERYONE.
THANK YOU
.
LET'S START WITH LET'S START AT
THE BEGINNING OF THE WHAT WE
WERE GOING TO DO WITH THE FIRST
PART OF THIS MEETING CITY
COUNCIL ANYTHING GOING ON WE
OUGHT TO KNOW ABOUT THE SPECIAL
INTEREST AVERAGES.
WE ONLY HAVE THERE'S ALWAYS A
LOT OF HAD TO OPEN UP THAT PART
OF MY BRAIN.
WE WE HAD TO ACTUALLY HAVE A
RELATIVELY LIGHT AGENDA AT THE
LAST CITY COUNCIL MEETING I WAS
LOOKING THROUGH IT MOSTLY IT
WAS APPROVING MORE HOUSING AND
REZONING SO IF HOUSING IS A
HUMAN RIGHT THEN WE CAN I CAN
REPORT THAT THERE IS THERE'S A
DEVELOPMENT THAT WE APPROVED
AND HAD A PUBLIC HEARING ABOUT
OF NORTH MAPLE ROAD.
SO NOT TOO FAR FROM WHERE
AVALON HOUSING ALREADY HAS A
PROJECT THAT WAS APPROVED BACK
IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN AND THE
THIRD PHASE WAS JUST COMPLETED
LAST LAST FALL.
SO THIS NEW PROJECT IS IS
PRIVATE DEVELOPER.
IT LOOKS LIKE IT'LL BE ABOUT
SEVENTY UNITS WITH AFFORDABLE
HOUSING ALL ELECTRIC SO
SUSTAINABLE WITH AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AT 60 PERCENT AM I
WHICH IS STILL A LOT BECAUSE
AVERAGE MEDIAN INCOME IN THE
COUNTY IS FOR A FOUR PERSON
HOUSEHOLD IS ONE HUNDRED K BUT
IT IS WHAT IT IS.
IT IS WHAT WE HAVE AND WE ARE
TRYING TO USE ALL THE OPTIONS
THAT WE CAN TO ENCOURAGE MORE
HOUSING TO BE DEVELOPED IN THE
CITY.
I THINK THAT WAS REALLY THE
BULK OF THE MEETING.
I WAS JUST LOOKING A HIGH
PRICED CAN YOU JUST REMIND ME
OF WHICH PROJECT THIS IS SO I
KNOW WHAT TO SAY IT TO NORTH
MAPLE NORTH MAPLE NORTH MAPLE
APARTMENTS IT'S IT'S ONE TWO
THREE.
OK, GREAT FOR PARCELS SO CLOSE
TO WHERE SKYLINERS CLOSE TO THE
ROUNDABOUT BUT RIGHT ON THE
EDGE OF THE TOWNSHIPS I THINK
THERE'S A FEW OTHER THINGS THAT
CAN HAPPEN AT THE LAST WELL A
RESOLUTION THAT I WORKED ON
WITH LEN AND CYNTHIA HARRISON
ABOUT BASICALLY HOLDING DETI
ACCOUNTABLE TO RATEPAYERS AND
NOT TO YOU KNOW, THE PEOPLE WHO
THEY HAVE IN THEIR POCKETS OR
SHAREHOLDERS BECAUSE THESE
OUTAGES AS CLIMATE AS CLIMATE
CHANGE GETS WORSE REALLY
DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECT THE
MOST MARGINALIZED PEOPLE WHO
ARE POOR AND THEN IT'S REALLY
HAVING A HUGE IMPACT ON OUR
SOCIAL SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS
AND THE RESOURCES THEY HAVE AND
THAT IN TURN THE RESOURCES THAT
EVERYONE GETS AS WELL.
RIGHT.
SO WE WROTE A RESOLUTION
BASICALLY IT'S CALLED THE IT'S
DIRECTING A CITY ADMINISTRATOR
TO ENGAGE WITH THE MICHIGAN
LEGISLATURE IN MICHIGAN PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION TO DEMAND
ENERGY EQUITY AND RESILIENCE
AND WE WERE REALLY INTENTIONAL
ABOUT THE ENERGY EQUITY PART.
THERE'S A FEW OTHER THINGS THAT
MIGHT BE OF INTEREST.
DO YOU WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
ANN ARBOR HOUSING COMMISSION
FUNDING FOR EVICTION?
RIGHT.
THAT WAS A CLOSE ONE.
SO WE HAD ABOUT ONE HUNDRED
FAMILIES LIVING IN HOTELS FOR
TEMPORARY SHELTER WITH AN
EXPECTED EVICTION ON APRIL 2ND
BECAUSE OF COUNTY FUNDING WHICH
THE CITY IS THE ONLY OTHER
PARTNER AND FUNDING TO SOCIAL
SERVICES.
SO IT'S A CITY IN THE COUNTY
WOULD HAVE ENDED THE CONTRACT
WOULD HAVE ENDED WITH OUR
SOCIAL SERVICE PARTNERS ON
APRIL 1ST.
SO WE WERE GETTING CALLS FROM
SOCIAL WORKERS, FOLKS IN THE
COMMUNITY WHO WERE SAYING WE
CANNOT HAVE OVER ONE HUNDRED
CHILDREN ON ON THE STREETS.
SO COUNCIL DID SOME REALLY
QUICK WORK WITH THE ANN ARBOR
HOUSING COMMISSION AND
REDEDICATED FUNDING THAT WENT
TO THIS ALLOTMENT TO EMERGENCY
EVICTION RELIEF AND ASSISTANCE
AND THE COUNTY IT TOOK A LITTLE
BIT BUT IT TOOK A WHILE.
BUT THEY ALSO READ DEDICATED
MONEY FOR THIS.
I THINK THEY ACTUALLY TOOK IT
OUT OF THEIR GENERAL RESERVES.
I THINK IT'S OVER A MILLION
THAT WAS TAKEN GENERAL RESERVES
TO TRY TO FIND RAPID REHOUSING
OR EXTENDING HOTEL VOUCHERS FOR
FAMILIES.
I THINK ULTIMATELY IT WAS A
QUICK FIX FOR MAYBE ANOTHER SIX
MONTHS.
THE WORRY THAT CITY COUNCIL AND
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS HAVE WE
CAN'T WE CAN'T KEEP DOING THIS
.
WE CAN'T KEEP DOING THIS AND
HOPING FOR GOOD WEATHER.
I'M HOPING WE DON'T HAVE MORE
OUTAGES WITH MORE FOLKS WHO ARE
STRUGGLING TO FIND EMERGENCY
HOUSING AND THEN WE OURSELVES
THE CITY WE HAD TO DEDICATE
ANOTHER HALF MILLION TO RESPOND
TO THE ICE STORMS.
RIGHT.
SO SOMEHOW BETWEEN SEEING THE
KIND OF WE NEED TO BE CREATIVE
ABOUT OUR OUR BUDGET AS WE GO
INTO BUDGET SEASON ON THESE
EMERGENCIES AND THINKING ABOUT
HOUSING INSECURITY LIKE WE DID
DURING THE PANDEMIC WHERE WE
HAVE FEDERAL MONIES TO TO STAVE
OFF EVICTION.
SO WE HAD THE EVICTION
MORATORIUMS.
WE ALSO HAD FEDERAL FUNDING FOR
FOLKS TO STAY HOUSED.
THE EVICTION COURTS ARE PACKED
WITH CASES RIGHT NOW.
SO YOU KNOW THE REQUESTS THAT
WE'VE BEEN HEARING FROM
COMMUNITY IS ASSISTANCE WITH
LEGAL SERVICES.
OVER 90 PERCENT OF TENANTS ARE
NOT ARE NOT REPRESENTED IN AN
EVICTION COURT BY THE LANDLORD
SHAHRIAR.
AND THAT'S INEQUITY.
IT'S A CLEAR INEQUITY THAT WE
SEE IN THIS WHOLE PROCESS AND
OTHER CITIES HAVE LIKE DETROIT
HAVE PASSED RIGHT TO COUNSEL
BUT TO PASS RIGHT TO COUNSEL
FOR TENANTS ALSO MEANS FIGURING
OUT HOW TO BUDGET FOR THAT IN
DETROIT THAT WAS MILLIONS FROM
I THINK THE ROCKET ROCKET
FAMILY ROCKET FUND ROCKET THE
MORTGAGE PEOPLE PAID MONEY TO
THAT.
SO WE'RE WE'RE WE'RE JUST
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW WE CAN
BE CREATIVE BUT ALSO WE CAN
UNDERSTAND WHAT IS HAPPENING IN
A MORE TIMELY MANNER.
SO HAWK WHICH IS THE INTAKE
CALL FOR FOR FOLKS WHO ARE IN
CRISIS THERE IS A DELAY AND IN
THE PAST YOU WOULD GET A CALL
BACK WITHIN TWENTY FOUR HOURS.
RIGHT NOW YOU IT'S A FIVE TO
YOU WON'T HAVE A RESPONSE OR BE
EVALUATED FOR FIVE TO SIX
WEEKS.
WOW.
THIS KIND OF CAME OFF OF A
CRISIS LAST JUNE LAST YEAR WHEN
THE SALVATION ARMY WHICH WAS
CONTRACTED BY THE COUNTY TO DO
THIS INTAKE WORK THEY STOPPED
DOING IT.
WE HAD OVER
20 UNANSWERED CALLS
BETWEEN JUNE AND AUGUST AND
THAT SUCH POOR TIMING BECAUSE
THAT WAS ALSO MY FEDERALLY FOR
EVICTION AVOIDANCE ALSO ENDED.
SO WE KNEW THERE WAS A CLIFF
THAT WAS HAPPENING AND THEN
BETWEEN LAST JUNE AND
THROUGHOUT THE FALL IT'S BEEN
TRYING TO JUST CATCH UP AND TRY
TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO THE COUNTY
HAS DECIDED TO DO INTAKE ITSELF
AND STEP UP WITH TEMPORARY
STAFF AND THEN FINALLY HIRED
FOLKS SO INSTEAD OF CONTRACTING
OUT TO AGENCIES MEANWHILE
AGENCIES WHO ARE ON THE GROUND
ARE TRYING TO DO ASSESSMENTS AS
THEY COME IN.
SO IT'S JUST BEEN KIND OF LIKE
A CONSTANT SCRAMBLE TO FIGURE
OUT FUNDING, FIGURE OUT WHAT IS
ACTUALLY PUTTING FOLKS IN
CRISIS.
A LOT OF IT IS NOT BEING ABLE
TO MEET PAYMENT ON THEIR RENT
BY RENT INCREASES HAVE BEEN
OUTRAGEOUS.
THE COUNTY AND THEN AND
LANDLORDS ARE ALSO TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO CHANGE LEASE
TERMS TO AVOID SOME OF OUR OWN
ORDINANCE CHANGES TO AND THERE
ARE ONLY SO MANY LANDLORDS WITH
SO MUCH HOUSING.
I THINK MACKINLEY ONCE TOLD ME
THAT THEY CREDIT THEMSELVES FOR
HOUSING 60 PERCENT OF OUR
OF OUR WORKFORCE RIGHT.
SO WE WE ARE TRYING TO DO ONE
THING THAT I'VE ASKED COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS MR. DARNAY AND
THE COUNTY ADMINISTRATORS TRY
TO SEE IF WE CAN COME TOGETHER
FOR LIKE A REAL WORK SESSION ON
FUNDING ALSO I THINK A REAL A
BETTER REAL TIME EVALUATION ON
WHAT'S GOING ON WITH FOLKS
HAVING THE SCHOOLS INVOLVED SO
THE MCKINNEY VENTO ACT IS A
FEDERAL ACT THAT REQUIRES
SCHOOLS TO DRIVE TRANSPORTATION
NO MATTER IF A CHILD TURNS IN A
PUBLIC SCHOOLS BUT THEY LIVE IN
THE TOWNSHIPS OR THEY'RE
TEMPORARY, THEY'RE HOMELESS,
THEY'RE COMING IN FROM A HOTEL
IN BELLVILLE WHICH IS HAPPENING
.
CHILDREN ARE IN BELLVILLE AND
THEN TRYING TO FIND
TRANSPORTATION IN ANN ARBOR.
WE NEED TO TALK TO THOSE SOCIAL
WORKERS SO RIGHT NOW I FEEL
LIKE WE'RE NOT REALLY
COORDINATING EFFORTS AS WELL AS
WE COULD BE OR SHOULD BE AND WE
NEED TO HAVE BETTER ANSWERS
BEFORE IT GETS COLD AGAIN THIS
FALL.
AND IF THAT INCLUDES ADVOCATING
FOR MORE FUNDING AT THE STATE
LEVEL OR AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL,
HAS IT REALLY, REALLY HAS TO
HAPPEN BECAUSE IF WE LOOK AT
HOMELESSNESS AND HOW IT'S BEEN
ADDRESSED IN OTHER CITIES I
TEXAS OF ALL PLACES HAS SOME
REALLY GOOD MEASURES ZERO ZERO
VETERAN HOMELESSNESS RATE
OF COURSE THAT HAS FEDERAL
FUNDING AROUND THAT.
BUT SOMEHOW WE NEED TO GET PAST
THIS INERTIA OF SAYING WELL YOU
NEED TO DO MORE NOW YOU NEED TO
DO MORE.
IT'S YOUR FUND OR MAYBE WE NEED
TO ASK THE TOWNSHIP FOR
TOWNSHIPS FOR MONEY.
THE TOWNSHIPS DO NOT CONTRIBUTE
TO SOCIAL SERVICE FUNDING IN
THE COUNTY AND WE'RE REALLY
LOOKING AT A LOT OF THIS EFFORT
BEING AN EASTERN WASHTENAW.
RIGHT.
SO IF THE TOWNSHIPS HAVE GOTTEN
MORE REVENUE FROM BUILDING
DEVELOPMENTS, WELL AND I WAS
JUST TRYING TO CATCH UP, I
WOULD I WOULD HOPE THAT THEY
WOULD CONSIDER THIS AS BEING
KIND A COUNTY WIDE EFFORT TO
JOIN IN.
BUT TOWNSHIPS HAVE ACTUALLY
SAID NO TO THIS.
THEY'VE ACTUALLY SAID NOW WE WE
WILL NOT WE ARE NOT MANDATED TO
CONTRIBUTE TO THIS.
IT'S NOT IN OUR CHARTER.
YOU KNOW, SO YOU KNOW, IF
ANYONE KNOWS FOLKS IN THE
TOWNSHIPS AND CARES FOR HUMAN
SERVICES, IT MIGHT BE A GOOD
TIME TO TALK TO YOUR TOWNSHIP
SUPERVISOR OR YOUR TOWNSHIP
TRUSTEES AND SAY I WOULD LIKE
YOU TO CONTRIBUTE TO FOOD
SECURITY, HOUSING SECURITY,
LEGAL SERVICES SOMETHING
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW IT'S ONLY ANN
BARBER AND THE COUNTY AND FOR
ANN ARBOR FOR OUR FUNDING IT
CAN ONLY STAY WITHIN THE CITY.
THANK YOU.
SO YEAH, SO A LOT GOING ON.
THERE'S A LOT GOING ON.
I DON'T KNOW.
THANK YOU FOR DOING NOW BECAUSE
THERE'S SO MUCH GOING ON JUST
LIKE OUR MINDS YOU THERE WAS
SOMETHING ELSE AT THE LAST
MINUTE I'LL BE REALLY BRIEF
ABOUT A CALL FROM A COUNCIL
MEMBER NOW WE'RE PARTICIPATING
IN AN OPIOID SETTLEMENT WITH
LIKE CVS.
WHAT BASICALLY WE'RE WE'RE
PARTICIPATING IN THIS LAWSUIT
WITH CVS AND WHATEVER AND
WALGREENS THERE'S MORE SPECIFIC
TAX AND NOT JUST HERE BUT
ESSENTIALLY LIKE COUNCIL MEMBER
CYNTHIA HARRISON CALL THE CITY
TO REALLY THINK ABOUT THE MONEY
WHEN WE GET FROM THAT
SETTLEMENT PUTTING IT TOWARDS
HARM REDUCTION AND SUBSTANCE
ABUSE TREATMENT AND MENTAL
HEALTH SERVICES.
SO THERE'S POSSIBILITIES FOR
HER HELP AND LOTS OF WHEN I
TOOK A GOOD A GOOD UPDATE I
HAVE LIKE A POSITIVE UPDATE SO
FAR DURING THE FUNDING WORK
LAST YEAR I HAD ASKED FOR
UNIVERSAL BASIC INCOME AND I
THINK THAT WAS LIKE ONE POINT
SIX MILLION THAT WE HAD
DEDICATED TO THAT IT WENT
THROUGH IN OUR FEE PROCESS AND
WE ARE PARTNERING WITH THE THE
POVERTY SOLUTIONS CENTER AT U
OF M THAT ANNOUNCEMENT WILL BE
OUT I THINK EARLY MAY THE FIRST
COUNCIL MEETING IN MAY AND
THEY'LL BE THE ONES WHO WILL BE
RESEARCHING AND PUTTING THE
PROCESS BEHIND GIVING FIVE
HUNDRED DOLLARS A MONTH TO ONE
HUNDRED FAMILIES OVER THE
COURSE OF TWO YEARS AND WE'VE
SEEN STUDIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY
SHOW THAT JUST GIVING MONEY
THAT'S UNRESTRICTED TO FOLKS
WHO ARE A CERTAIN AMAI HAS HAS
REALLY, REALLY HELPED FOLKS
JUST STAY HOUSED, PAY MEDICAL
BILLS, WHATEVER THEY NEED
HEALTH CARE.
YEAH, I'VE READ THOSE STUDIES
TO REALLY REALLY SOMEBODY'S
GOING TO MONITOR WHAT HAPPENS
WITH YEAH.
SO THAT'S THE VIEW OF POVERTY
SOLUTION CENTER WILL BE WILL BE
THE ONE BEHIND THAT.
SO THAT'S THAT'S NEXT MAKE THAT
IS GOOD NEWS GOOD NEWS GOOD
NEWS .
WE'VE GOT FIFTEEN MINUTES AN
AWFUL LOT TO DO WHAT I'D LIKE
TO DO FIRST THOUGH IS TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES GET THAT
OUT OF THE WAY.
DO DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY I
GUESS WE NEED A MOTION TO
HANDLE THE MINUTES SECOND BY
SECOND.
OK DISCUSSION ONE DISCUSSION
SORRY SO UNDER IT'S ON PAGE
THREE UNDER CONTRACT COMPLIANCE
JUST A MINOR I CAN'T HEAR YOU
ON PAGE THREE OF THE MINUTES
UNDER CONTRACT COMPLIANCE JUST
A VERY MINOR CORRECTION NEXT TO
THE LAST SENTENCE IT READS AND
RAISED SOME ISSUE SHOULD BE
ISSUES AN RATHER THAN A DENHA
.
YEAH SO YEAH.
OH YOU KNOW I ACTUALLY HAVE ONE
TOO OK I WOULD LIKE TO OUR
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE IS
MOST EXCELLENT BECAUSE IT IS
NOT ISOLATE A PARTICULAR TYPE
OF GOVERNMENT ISSUED ID SO WHAT
WE TALKED ABOUT LAST TIME WAS A
GOVERNMENT ISSUED ID CARD SLASH
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE
LIKE I WOULD WE UNDERMINE THE
WORK OF THE ORDINANCE BY
ISOLATING THE WASHTENAW LIKE IT
SHOULD BECOME JUST ANOTHER JUST
ANOTHER GOVERNMENT ISSUED ID.
SO UNDER OLD BUSINESS WHERE WE
ARE LOOKING AT PAGE THREE, PAGE
THREE UNDER OLD BUSINESS I SEE
.
SO FOR FUTURE DISCUSSIONS ON
THIS ONE THAT SEEMS GOVERNMENT
ISSUED I.D. CARDS.
OK OK.
AND THAT'S WHAT IT SAYS IS THAT
MARRIED MEAN YOU WANT TO CHANGE
IN THIS SO THAT IT SAYS
GOVERNMENT ISSUED ID ID
WASHTENAW ID OH OH I SEE YOU
MEAN UP HERE OK I SAY I SEE OK
YEP THANK YOU.
OK I'M ON PAGE ONE TONY'S NAME
IS GO WRONG HERE THE OH YES
AND
I THINK WE'VE GOT OFF AND I HAD
ANYTHING ELSE ON FAVOR I
OPPOSED PAST WITH CHANGES
FACIAL RECOGNITION IN AND
ANNALYN QUICKLY I'LL GET IT
OVER TO YOU OK.
YEAH THIS IS THIS IS A LONG
STANDING ISSUE THAT'S BEEN KIND
OF ON HOLD.
WE HAD WE HAVE DRAFT LANGUAGE
THAT'S FROM LAST SUMMER
ACTUALLY FROM THE ATTORNEYS
OFFICE FROM WHEN ARYAN'S WAS
STILL HERE THE PROSECUTING
ATTORNEY AND I THINK WE JUST
QUIBBLED OVER WHETHER IT SHOULD
BE A RESOLUTION OR ORDINANCE
AND THEN WITH EVERYONE RUNNING
FOR OFFICE IT WASN'T JUST
REALLY THAT TOP OF TOP PRIORITY
BUT WE CAN REVIVE THIS WORK AND
ACTUALLY SHARE THE DRAFT
LANGUAGE WITH THE REST OF THE
COMMISSION, ESPECIALLY SINCE WE
HAVE SO MANY NEW COMMISSIONERS
AND NOW THAT WE HAVE A NEW CITY
PROSECUTOR WHO MAYBE SOME
OF YOU GUYS WILL GIVE SOME A
BIT OF LIFE TO IT TOO.
SO I MEAN I THINK THE
UNFORTUNATE THING IS NO
PROGRESS BECAUSE IT WASN'T IT
WAS DIFFICULT TO MAKE IT A
PRIORITY BEFORE BUT I THINK
THERE HOPEFULLY THERE'S NEW
ENTHUSIASM BEHIND IT THERE
DEFINITELY BE IN MY PERSPECTIVE
PRETTY SUBSTANTIVE EDITS AND
UPLIFTS TO THE DOCUMENT AS WELL
.
SO JUST BEING TRANSPARENT ABOUT
THE ASSOCIATED LIFT
THAT WOULD
COME ALONG WITH IT FOR FOLKS
WHO WANT TO GET INVOLVED.
DO YOU WANT PARSAD BY A CERTAIN
POINT?
IS THERE ANYTHING OF PAST?
YEAH WE HAVE WE'VE HAD DRAFT
LANGUAGE SINCE LAST SUMMER.
YEAH IT'S IT'S NOT WHAT I
WANTED WHAT I WANTED A LOT.
I WANTED TO BE LIKE VERY STRONG
AND VERY AFFIRMATIVE BACKED BY
WHAT THE ACLU HAD RECOMMENDED I
THINK COMMUNITY MEMBERS HAD
ASKED BUT WHAT WE GOT WAS A
VERY CONSERVATIVE RESPONSE, A
VERY CONSERVATIVE AND LIMITED
LEGAL RESPONSE VERSUS WHAT WE
WANTED WAS SOMETHING THAT CAN
LIVE BEYOND WHOEVER IS AT THE
TABLE, WHOEVER IS ON COUNCIL
AROUND THESE COMMISSIONS AND
AND AS TECHNOLOGY CHANGES AND
DEVELOPS, THERE STILL HAVE WILL
RESPONSIVE AND STRONG ENOUGH TO
PROTECT FOLKS FROM IT.
SO WE'LL HAVE TO MAKE IT
BETTER.
OK, ANYWAY WE CAN HELP WITH
THAT SNAFFLE COMPLAINT PROCESS
JUDA OK SPEAK BRIEFLY ABOUT
THIS AND SOME TIME AND THIS IS
MORE OF AN INTERNAL MATTER.
SO ANYWAY THOSE QUESTIONS
YOU'VE GOT THE MATERIALS THANK
YOU LINDA FOR DRAFTING THAT.
I'M JUST GOING TO BE THE POINT
PERSON GOING FORWARD.
THE PROCESS ALONG THESE BUT
LOOK AT OVER IF YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS OR
COMMENTS LET YOU KNOW AND IT'S
DRAFT BUT IT'S YOU KNOW, THE
IDEA IS TO COME TO ALERT ME
THEN I'LL FORM ABOUT TO LEAD
AND TO ANOTHER PERSON TO HANDLE
THE GIST OF IT WHICH WE TALKED
ABOUT LAST TIME.
SO THAT'S ALL I GOT.
I JUST WANTED TO POINT OUT THAT
THE FIRST PART IS REALLY FOR
THE MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT WHO IS
DENHA AND IF YOU IF YOU GO TO
PAGE THREE I SHOULD HAVE PAGE
NUMBERS ON IT AND IT'S FOR THE
COMMISSIONERS WHO ARE ASSIGNED
TO INQUIRIES OR PORT COMPLAINTS
TO TO HANDLE.
SO YES, THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT'S BEEN A WORK IN PROGRESS.
WE'RE CHANGING A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT AWAY ASSIGNMENTS ARE MADE
SO THAT SOMEBODY HAS MORE
CONTROL OVER IT SINCE IT'S BEEN
A LITTLE BIT ON THIS OBVIOUSLY
WITH THE AGREEMENT OF THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE CALLED TO ASK
WHETHER THEY CAN HANDLE IT BUT
PLEASE READ IT OVER AND
ESPECIALLY IF YOU ARE IF YOU DO
AGREE TO TAKE ON AN INQUIRY OR
A COMPLAINT, REALLY FOLLOW IT.
AND AS YOU'RE TRYING TO FOLLOW
IT, IF YOU COME UP WITH WAYS
THAT THIS CAN BE CLARIFIED OR
IMPROVED OR CHANGED, KEEP AN
OUT OF IT.
LET US KNOW IT'S DEFINITELY A
WORK IN PROGRESS
.
I GUESS JUST A WORD THAT THIS
ALL CAME ABOUT AFTER OUR
STRATEGIC PLANNING SESSION TWO
YEARS AGO NOW THAT EVERYBODY
WANTED TO BE INVOLVED, WE HAD A
GROUP THAT WAS DEDICATED TO
THIS AND NOW WE'RE TRYING TO
OPEN IT UP TO EVERYBODY.
IT IS IT IS SOMETHING THAT SO
MADE IT FORCED US TO LOOK AT
OUR PROCESS.
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE DOING IT.
BUT AND AND JUDAH WILL TRY TO
PAIR PEOPLE TOGETHER SO THAT
YOU HAVE SOMEBODY WITH SOME
EXPERIENCE IF YOU'RE IF YOU'VE
NEVER HAD IT BEFORE.
BUT THIS IS IT'S BEEN A VERY
HELPFUL PROCESS BECAUSE WE HAVE
TO FIND WHAT WE'RE DOING BUT WE
HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO BE
PROFESSIONAL AND FOLLOW SOME
RULES.
OK, TRESPASS UPDATE LINDA.
YEAH, I'LL MAKE IT BRIEF.
WE'VE HAD LOTS OF BACK AND
FORTH FORTUNATELY NOW DIRECTLY
BETWEEN US AND THE
COMMUNICATION DEPARTMENT IN THE
CITY.
SO WE'VE GOT A FINAL FINAL
VERSION.
IT'S GOING FINALLY BACK TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
THEY'LL THEY'LL LOOK IT UP IN
ONE MORE TIME AND THEN IT GOES
TO THE PRINTER.
SO WE'VE DONE IT SO YOU'LL SEE
IT WHEN IT'S DONE.
BUT I THINK I THINK IT'S GOING
TO BE A LOT BETTER THAN BETTER
POLICY U OF M NO, YOU'RE RIGHT
.
IT DOESN'T THEY'VE KIND
OF DROPPED THE BALL.
IT'S I WE'RE IN FINALS.
THEY'RE PROBABLY NOT GOING TO
DO IT IN APRIL.
THEY MAY DO IT IN THE SUMMER
TERM.
WE'LL SEE I I'VE MADE A NUMBER
OF REACHING OUT ATTEMPTS AND IT
HASN'T WORKED BUT I I WE WILL
DO IT.
WE HAVE THE BEGINNINGS AND
MAYBE MAYBE A GOOD PART OF I
PRESENTED AND EVEN SOME NICE
GRAPHICS THANKS TO BRANDON AND
I WILL AS SOON AS IT GETS
SOMEWHAT PRESENTABLE I'M GOING
TO PASS IT BY YOU SO THAT WE
KNOW WE HAVE SOME INPUT AND I'D
LIKE TO MAKE SURE THAT WE HAVE
SOMETHING SO THAT WE'RE READY
TO DO IT NEXT TIME.
WE DON'T HAVE TO START FROM
SCRATCH AND WE CAN TAKE THIS
SHOW ON THE ROAD ANYWHERE ONCE
WE HAVE IT.
SO THAT'S A GOOD IDENTIFYING.
WE DID THAT AND THE HRC MAILING
LIST WE SENT OUT ACTUALLY WE
STARTED OUT WITH ABOUT TWO
HUNDRED AND SIXTY NAMES ON THE
MAILING LIST THAT WAS OUT
OF DATE BY ABOUT FOUR YEARS AND
ABOUT ABOUT THREE FIVE NAMES
FELL OFF.
IS THAT ABOUT RIGHT?
AND WE DID WE SET I SENT YOU A
COPY OF WHAT WE SENT OUT.
WE'LL SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
WE WOULD LIKE PEOPLE TO KNOW
THAT BY SIMPLY DROPPING A QUICK
NOTE TO THE HRC TODAY TO GOV.
DOUG, GIVE US YOUR NAME AND
YOUR EMAIL ADDRESS IF YOU WANT
TO BE ON THIS LIST.
THIS IS GOING TO BE VERY
INTERESTING LIST THE WINNERS
OF THE RENNER'S COMMISSION IS
INTERESTED IN IS USING AND SO
WILL AIRPARK AND IT'S A LIST
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE INTERESTED IN
CIVIL RIGHTS TO HUMAN RIGHTS
AND A DIFFERENT LIST THAN WHAT
MAYBE GOES OUT NORMALLY.
SO IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE CAN
USE IN A LOT OF DIFFERENT WAYS
ANYWAY.
I'M GLAD IT'S I'M GLAD IT'S
STARTING TO WORK AND WE'LL LET
YOU KNOW WHAT HAPPENS TO IT.
FINALLY, THE RUNNER RENNER'S
ASSOCIATION RENNER'S COMMISSION
I'VE MADE CONTACT WITH THE
RUNNERS COMMISSION WITH KRISTIN
VANDER MUTLU WHO IS THE I GUESS
SHE'S THE ADMINISTRATIVE
ASSISTANT FOR THAT GROUP AND WE
ARE GOING TO DO A PRESENTATION
IN JUNE FOR THEM AND THEY WILL
DO SOMETHING FOR US.
WE HAVE VERY SOME SOMEWHAT
INTERLOCKING INTERESTS.
WE DO DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
ON ALL THE PROTECTED CLASSES
THAT MAKES US IMPORTANT FOR
HOUSING.
WE DO SOURCE OF INCOME WHICH
MAKES US VERY IMPORTANT BECAUSE
THAT'S WHERE PEOPLE HAVE
PROTECTION AGAINST
DISCRIMINATION AGAINST
VOUCHERS.
FOR EXAMPLE, SECTION EIGHT AND
NOW WE ALSO HAVE FAIR CHANCERS
ACCESS TO HOUSING.
SO THERE ARE THREE WAYS IN
WHICH WE'RE WE'RE INVOLVED IN
HOUSING AS WE HAVE NOT BEEN
INVOLVED FOR MANY YEARS.
WE DON'T KNOW AS MUCH ABOUT IT.
THEY KNOW A LOT ABOUT IT.
WE TAKE COMPLAINTS AND THEY
DON'T.
SO THERE ARE LOTS OF WAYS THAT
WE CAN HELP EACH OTHER OUT AND
ARE GIVING A PRESENTATION TO
THEM.
THEY'RE TELLING US WHAT THEY DO
AND WHAT THEY KNOW AND
REFERRING PEOPLE WHO NEED US
WILL BE VERY HELPFUL.
I THINK FOR EVERYBODY ON THIS
SO THE DATE IS JUNE 15TH AT
SEVEN THIRTY AND WOULD BE NICE
IF SOME OF YOU FOLKS CAME.
IT'S ZOOME SO IT'S NOT A BIG
COMMITMENT BUT IT'D BE NICE IF
WE SHOWED UP SUPPORTED YOU ALL
GOT THE SAME INFORMATION AT ONE
TIME AND THEN WE'LL SEE WHAT WE
CAN WHAT THEY CAN DO FOR US.
SERIOUSLY I WILL SEND YOU THE
LINK.
YES.
WHEN I GET
WASHTENAW COUNTY AND
YOU THIS HAS TO DO WITH YOUR
CHECKING IN WITH THE COUNTY
CLERK WE ALL KNOW OK THE LAST
THING AND I KNOW OK SO LET ME
BACK UP I REALIZED THAT I HAVE
NOT ASKED THE COMMUNITY GROUPS
THAT I'VE ALWAYS ASKED FOR
THEIR INPUT BEFORE PRESENTING
ANYTHING THAT'S WRITTEN OR
STRUCTURING ANYTHING AND I NEED
TO DO THAT.
I THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
THAT WE CONTINUE THAT
COLLABORATION AND I WASN'T ABLE
TO DO IT IN BECAUSE I ALSO HAVE
GOOD NEWS I DON'T KNOW IF YOU
READ OR HEARD THAT THE MICHIGAN
LEGISLATURE IS GOING TO BE
INTRODUCING BOTH STATE AND IN
THE HOUSE BILLS TO PERMIT FOLKS
WHO ARE UNDOCUMENTED TO APPLY
FOR A DRIVER'S LICENSE.
THEY'LL BE HOPEFULLY IF IT
PASSES NO LONGER A REQUIREMENT
TO PROVE THAT YOU'RE IN THIS
COUNTRY.
YOU KNOW, AFTER A WHOLE HOST
OF ADMINISTRATIVE HURDLES.
SO THAT'S REALLY EXCITING.
IT LOOKS ACTUALLY FEASIBLE
.
A FEW OF COURSE ARE ARGUING
AGAINST IT.
BUT I THINK REALLY WITH A GOOD
SHOT AT IT AND MOST FOLKS ARE
WORKING ON THAT I.D. ISSUE
RIGHT NOW.
SO HOPEFULLY BY OUR NEXT
MEETING I'LL HAVE SOME
FEEDBACK.
RIGHT.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
IF THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE
HAVING PROBLEMS WITH I.D. THEY
KNOW TO CALL US WELL.
BUT OK, SO FIRST ISSUE IS TO
COUNT THE THAT STATUTE IN TERMS
OF PUTTING IT IN THE HAS TO BE
IN THE COUNTY CLERK'S OFFICE.
THAT'S FOR THE WHOLE COUNTY.
SO WE WOULD GET CALLS FROM
FOLKS THAT LIVE IN THE COUNTY
BECAUSE THAT'S WHERE DOESN'T
MATTER WHERE THEY LIVE.
IT MATTERS WHERE THEY ARE.
I KNOW BUT BUT A LOT OF FOLKS
GOING TO THE CLERK'S OFFICE ON
MAIN STREET ARE TAKING YOUR ID
BACK TO SEE YOUR WHERE IT
HAPPENS AND I KNOW WHAT WE WANT
TO BE SURE THAT WE'RE NOT
CONFUSING FOLKS THAT WE PUT OUT
A YOU KNOW, A PAMPHLET THAT'S
CLEAR AND LETS THEM KNOW AND
THEN IF YOU IF IT'S NOT ACTIVE
DISCRIMINATION IN ANN ARBOR I
FEEL LIKE I NEED TO COME UP
WITH SOMETHING COMPARABLE FOR
FOLKS WHO ARE NON ANN ARBOR
VICTIMS BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY WE
KNOW THIS IS GOING ON
EVERYWHERE SO I JUST WANT TO
HESITATE AND GET INPUT ON HOW
PEOPLE THINK THEY SHOULD BEST
BE HANDLED.
YOU BUT I AM HAPPY ABOUT THE
THE DRIVER'S LICENSE.
YEAH, I WOULD ENCOURAGE FOLKS
TO CONTACT SENATOR STEPHANIE
CHANG.
SHE'S BEEN WORKING ON THIS FOR
SEVEN YEARS AND IT WASN'T UNTIL
WE FINALLY HAVE A MAJORITY IN
THE LEGISLATURE THAT THIS CAN
ACTUALLY SEE THE LIGHT OF DAY
AND HAVE SOME LIGHT BEHIND IT.
SO I THINK THERE WAS A PRESS
CONFERENCE LIKE FIVE HOURS AGO
THAT WAS HER AND A NUMBER
OF LEGISLATORS AND FAMILIES WHO
SAY THAT THEY PUT THEMSELVES AT
RISK EVERY DAY TO DRIVE THEIR
KIDS TO SCHOOL BECAUSE THEY
DON'T HAVE A LICENSE EVEN
THOUGH THEY THEY WORK HERE AND
THEY ARE LEGALLY HERE.
AND YOU KNOW WHAT'S SO
PHENOMENAL ABOUT THIS PROCESS
TOO IS THAT A LOT
OF UNDOCUMENTED FOLKS WERE PART
OF THE ORGANIZING PROCESS IN
TERMS OF REACHING OUT TO SO
MANY FAMILIES WITH MIXED STATUS
AND ORGANIZING FOLKS TO VOTE TO
CALL ME.
IT'S AMAZING TO AMAZING.
WELL, WE ARE DONE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YES.
SECOND ALL IN FAVOR.
SEE YOU NEXT NEXT NEXT MONTH WE
WILL BE DOWN IN THE BASEMENT.
OH, THEY'LL BE ABLE TO WATCH
LOOK AT ONE ANOTHER AS WE SPEAK
JUST DOWN THE BASEMENT.
OH, OH.
CAN YOU SPEAK TO
THAT REALLY
RIGHT NOW